Abstract There are wide variations between the developing countries in the capabilities of their enterprises to import, utilize and improve upon industrial technologies. It is important for the purposes of industrial policy to understand why these differences exist and how industrial capabilities may be improved. This article presents the findings of recent research into the nature of capability development and the role of government policies in promoting such development. The process of becoming efficient in industry is very different from the usual textbook portrayal, in which firms costlessly access and absorb new technologies. In reality, there is a long and uncertain learning process involved, differing with the nature of the technology, the efficiency of factor and product markets, and the provision of various technological information and services from the infrastructure institutions. There is a widespread risk in developing countries that all these markets suffer from failures: the scope for technology development policies rests on the need to remedy these failures. The experience of the most successful newly industrializing economies (NIEs) suggests that well-designed interventions, both selective and functional, are needed to promote technology development. Experience clearly shows the dangers of government failure, but it is necessary to retain a large role for the government if industry is to succeed. The pattern and implementation of interventions have to be very different. This article points out the outlines of economically desirable interventions. No full-text available To read the full-text of this research, you can request a copy directly from the author. ... The ability of a company to handle technology and changes associated with it is referred to as technological capability (Lall, 1993). In any firm, the objective of information technology is to reduce the cost and increase capability (Closs et al., 1997). ... This is a chapter of the 2016 edition of the series Desafios para Moçambique (Challenges for Mozambique), which is published, annually, by IESE. Desafios para Moçambique 2016 is focused on a critical debate of what social and economic research in Mozambique can say about, and help to think about, the key questions that the government wants to address with its five year program 2015-2019. Thus, this article, which critically discusses the SME-led development approach, is focused on what research shows to be key questions to think about while discussing the emergence, development and restructuring of firms in Mozambique and the role of the state. Challenging the government's approach, which is basically limited to repeating all the right words about SMEs, the article tries to draw and base the discussion of from/on the understanding of the political economy dynamics of capital accumulation and growth trends in Mozambique, looking at the general trends as well as at a the case of the restructuring of the cashew industry. The article shows the limitations of the definitions and of focusing policy on arbitrary definitions of scale, and calls for an understanding of firms and their dynamics beyond "traditional" firm boarders and over business cycles. ... In tandem, such conceptsdone emphasising the nature of indigenous technological development and innovation, the other the interlinkages between local, national, and international supply chains denable us to reveal the networks of firms and institutions participating in South Africa's renewable energy sector. We maintain that together these concepts offer a more nuanced and complete picture of the political economy of technological development and allow us to consider dimensions such as the distribution of power within those networks (Bridge, 2008); the significance of skills development (Lall, 1993); the role of trade and the deepening international division of labour across global value chains (Curran, 2015); and broader political, sociocultural, and environmental implications resulting from these trends (Coe, Dicken, & Hess, 2008;Gereffi et al., 2005). ... ... The case of South Africa illustrates concepts central to technological capabilities, including the nature of technology transfer to developing countries and related definitions of research and development (R&D); knowledge spill-overs and knowledge leakage (Bell & Pavitt, 1993); industry clusters and innovation systems (Bell & Albu, 1999); and the Asian driver debate at the centre of which is the notion of China as the 'workshop of the world' (Lema et al., 2012:40). Our study also illustrates long-standing debates over the relationship between imported technology and indigenous technological development in low and middle income countries (Lall, 1993(Lall, , 1987. This includes the difficulties of transplanting foreign technology into a country where adapted institutions have not evolved jointly, resulting in serious incongruities and disruptions (Mokyr, 1998). ... We examine underlying conflicts between technological capabilities and global production networks in South Africa's solar photovoltaic (PV) and wind energy industries. This includes an analysis of the complex and multi-scalar relationships that exist between international and local institutions, as well as the embedded nature of renewable energy technology within a national and international political economy. In South Africa's case, this encompasses endogenous factors such as the introduction of a regulatory framework for renewable energy independent power producers as well as international dynamics such as rapidly evolving trends in renewable energy investment, trade, and technology development. While South Africa's wind and solar industries have been celebrated internationally, tensions exist within national government between commercial priorities and requirements for economic development including local content. We provide an empirically rich description to explore how competition and manipulation have posed obstacles to the localisation of renewable energy technologies at the national level. ... Moreover, such literature underscores how much learning embedded within manufacturing chains alone is highly dependent on fragmentation of production processes and specific innovations occurring within the chain. In the Schumpeterian catch-up traditions as well, a substantial learning has ensued from the learning dynamics of late industrializing economies, and of a range of technology sectors from electronics to semiconductors, and biotechnology (Lall 1982(Lall , 1993Amsden, 1989Amsden, , 2001Katz, 1984;Kim, 1997;Nelson, 1993;Lundvall, 1992;Cimoli & Katz, 2002;Iizuka & Katz, 2010). Learning to respond to domestic and export demand also plays a crucial role in meeting basic needs. ... ... The hidden links between manufacturing and agriculture provoke questions even within the three diverse paths of import substituting industrialization of how one strategy can interfere in another. Lall (1982Lall ( , 1993) also points to how learning with capital equipment was crucial in feeding a wide variety of firms in developing countries. With the emergence of agribusiness, since 1970, the vision of "agricultural functions" as a progressively regressive activity by industrialization has been broken. ... This paper is focused on economic growth models and the manner in which they include technological learning. This paper presents a selected critical review on the literature related to agriculture and industrial sector developments, and makes a brief description of an alternative approach for economic transformation which gives importance to agricultural growth and has more relevance for growth with development. In the traditional approach, manufacturing is given primacy and agricultural growth is a second best development option. Our argument is that in most economic growth models agriculture is seen as a more passive supplier to manufacturing. We argue that this arises from a debatable economic stages model (two and three sectors) that under-recognizes learning and innovation in agriculture and its crossover supplier segments with manufacturing. We contrast the Lewis (1954) and Hayami & Ruttan (1985) models as ways to explore a more dynamic Schumpeterian sensibility to economic development and growth. A neo-Schumpeterian evolutionary economics has potential for understanding both manufacturing as well as agriculture, but should be more carefully extended to consider the inter-linkages between the two to extract the maximum developmental benefit. In the United States from which significant scholarship on technical change has emanated, learning in agriculture has also co-evolved with that in manufacturing. The issues raised in this paper are far from academic. From farmer suicides because of high indebtedness and low productivity in parts of India, bio-ethanol crops and new land use patterns in Brazil, and different agriculture-manufacturing mixes from Ghana and Ethiopia to South Africa, it is clear that models that connect learning and innovation to growth require closer attention and have important developmental consequences through policy design. ... Or, more precisely: technical, managerial and institutional abilities that make companies able to use equipment and technical information effectively in order to create products that support industrial-ecological principles (cf. Lall 1993). ... ... A cogwheel is useless if nobody knows why and how it is made, how it is used, what it can be used for, and who could benefit from using it. Technology should therefore be taken to mean not only the artefact, but also the knowledge needed to make, use, maintain and further develop it, and the institutional framework needed for people to be able to use the technology in a proper manner (Müller 1984, Lall 1993, Lorentzen and Granerud 1999. ... The predominant focus within Industrial Ecology research and industrial practice has almost exclusively been on the industrialised North. This paper first seeks explanations for this. Then, an analytical framework for conditions influencing industrial-ecological innovation capacity in countries in the South is presented and discussed. Next, several developments are pointed to that may possibly lead away from the Northern bias within industrial-ecological research and practice. This is followed by arguments for why industrial-ecological principles may advantageously be employed in the South to a larger extent than what is currently the case, and how this may contribute to the further development of industrial ecology as a discipline. Finally, future research challenges within this subfield of industrial ecology will be discussed. ... All developed shares outside agriculture and into manufacturing, construction, extractive industries, and tech-intensive services, even where their specific urban or rural emphasis varied. Lall (1982;1984;1993) underscored the vital process of building technological capabilities including construction engineering, building plant capacity, to managerial capabilities in all sectors, organisational innovations, and investments in project execution and governance. Amsden (1989) highlighted the crucial state capacity to monitor private manufacturing firms in the public interest which transformed Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, which capitalised on selective market access opportunities. ... ... More promisingly, 'planning from here' can identify dual or multiple goals for plans. Demand and delivery concerns, or attention to learning and innovation can converge, resulting in employment, skills and productivity, but also better customisation of products and processes to local conditions (Lall 1982;1993;Srinivas and Sutz 2008;Kaplinsky 2011). Social policies and environmental demand factors offer productive expansion (Albuquerque 2007;Arocena and Sutz 2000;Srinivas 2012;2014;, making industrial welfare an essential element of this economic strategy. ... ... The key issue to any strategy of industrial development is building up local capabilities to master manufacturing technologies, as is insightfully argued by Sanjaya Lall (1993) in his article 'Understanding Technology Development'. Such technological capabilities are the firm-specific skillstechnical, managerial and institutional -that allow firms to utilize complex equipment and technical information efficiently. ... ... The main points of Lall (1993) and Wade (2014) are congruent with the argument made in the previously mentioned paper on 'Structural Change' by Servaas Storm (2015), which is also outspokenly Kaldorian in approach, emphasizing Kaldor's First and Second Empirical Laws, and which has many links with Sideri (1972), Jenkins (1991), Lawrence (2005), and Storm and Naastepad (2005). The 2015 paper should be read as a companion piece to Fischer's (2015) contribution on peripherality. ... The ‘political economy of industrialization’ in mixed economies has been a key concern of Development and Change right from the start, as will be clear from this collection of 22 articles, published in the journal between 1970 and 2015. All papers analyse what government should and should not do — and, more importantly, what government can do to foster industrial development within the constraints and contradictions imposed by domestic political alignments and the global capitalist order. The 22 papers in this virtual issue are grouped under three broad headings: (1) varieties of industrialization experiences; (2) the macroeconomics of industrialization; and (3) state capitalism and industrialization. This introductory essay discusses the main themes of each grouping and justifies why the papers have been included by highlighting how each one engages with the main themes and what lessons it holds for industrialization now. Universities are highly responsible for knowledge creation and technology development. However, university technology transfer (UTT) is considered a challenge in bringing innovative technologies for commercialization and community services. Thus, identifying the barriers and their complex interrelationships that hinder the successful implementation of UTT provides a better understanding of the process, which may be considered as inputs to crucial decision-making initiatives. While this approach is highly relevant in the domain field, it remains a point of departure in the current literature. This paper addresses this gap by holistically determining the UTT barriers and their intertwined relationships. Using the Delphi method and the fuzzy decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory (DEMATEL) to carry out this objective, a case study in a state university in the Philippines is presented in this work. Results show that lack of resources has the strongest causal relationship among the 24 UTT barriers. Whereas, poor marketing/technical/negotiation skills of technology transfer office obtained the highest impacts received and is categorized as the main net effect. These findings are intended to guide various stakeholders in understanding the influence of barriers in the formulation of strategies and initiatives to carry out effectively the UTT process. ... Lawhon and Murphy [16] describe science, technology, economics, ecology, and political science as the foundation of sociotechnical transition theory based on multiple works [14,[61][62][63][64][65][66][67][68]. The literature of sociotechnical transitions often focuses on the replacement of artifacts to achieve sustainability [69][70][71][72]. ... Green infrastructure is a unique combination of economic, social, and environmental goals and benefits that requires an adaptable framework for planning, implementing, and evaluating. In this study, we propose an experimental framework for policy, implementation, and subsequent evaluation of green stormwater infrastructure within the context of sociotechnical systems and urban experimentation. Sociotechnical systems describe the interaction of complex systems with quantitative and qualitative impacts. Urban experimentation-traditionally referencing climate change programs and their impacts-is a process of evaluating city programs as if in a laboratory setting with hypotheses and evaluated results. We combine these two concepts into a singular framework creating a policy feedback cycle (PFC) for green infrastructure to evaluate municipal green infrastructure plans as an experimental process within the context of a sociotechnical system. After proposing and discussing the PFC, we utilize the tool to research and evaluate the green infrastructure programs of 27 municipalities across the United States. Results indicate that green infrastructure plans should incorporate community involvement and communication, evaluation based on project motivation, and an iterative process for knowledge production. We suggest knowledge brokers as a key resource in connecting the evaluation stage of the feedback cycle to the policy phase. We identify three important needs for green infrastructure experimentation: (i) a fluid definition of green infrastructure in policy; (ii) maintenance and evaluation components of a green infrastructure plan; and (iii) communication of the plan to the community. Abstract The application of digital technology in conservation holds much potential for advancing the understanding of, and facilitating interaction with, the natural world. In other sectors, digital technology has long been used to engage communities and share information. Human development—which holds parallels with the nature conservation sector—has seen a proliferation of innovation in technological development. Throughout this Perspective, we consider what nature conservation can learn from the introduction of digital technology in human development. From this, we derive a charter to be used before and throughout project development, in order to help reduce replication and failure of digital innovation in nature conservation projects. We argue that the proposed charter will promote collaboration with the development of digital tools and ensure that nature conservation projects progress appropriately with the development of new digital technologies. ... Long run market success is ultimately based on the development of frontier technological capabilities (Lee and Lim, 2001). Technological capabilities are defined as the knowledge and skills that an agent needs to create, use, adapt and improve technology (Lall, 1993) 1 . Technological capabilities are necessary to adapt to changes in the technology environment. ... The evolution of technology is a key driver of economic and societal change. In this dissertation, we develop a new theoretical framework to study how firms in the Semiconductor industry tackle engineering design challenges to make new and better devices. For instance, the never-ending miniaturization of microchips allowed the creation of new electronic products like smart-phones, tablets and flat-screen monitors. However, it also forced firms to deal with the rise of design challenges caused by the smaller scale of transistors, such as heat dissipation and faster deterioration. By analysing patent citation networks, we reveal which firms tackled those challenges by applying well-established design approaches and which one explored new paths. We also investigate whether there is any evidence of a life cycle of design challenges and problem-solving approaches during the technological evolution of an industry. We particularly focus on the inventive strategies followed by catching-up firms, like Samsung semiconductors, LG semiconductors, and the largest semiconductor manufacturing-only companies in the world, Taiwanese TSMC and UMC and Singaporean Chartered (now Global Foundries). The novel theoretical framework and network analysis methods described in this dissertation are of great value for the study of technology and scientific evolution. They also have important implications for innovation studies and evolutionary economics. Precise policy and managerial suggestions for technology development strategies are discussed in the thesis. ... It can be seen that technological capabilities are built through interactions among various elements in socioeconomic and institutional settings, and assimilating the external technologies requires increasing internal capability (Vinding 2006). Technology capabilities from these theories are the knowledge and skills that firms and the country continuously acquire, adapt, improve and use to create technology to achieve sustainable innovative capacity (Lall 1993;Zahra and George 2002;Cerulli 2014). Furthermore, technology and innovation capability form the basis of absorptive capacity which comprises acquisition capability, assimilation capability, transformation capability and application capability (Zahra and George 2002). ... The issue of a low-carbon energy system is contentious especially in developing countries as the world is transiting from a fossil fuel based economy to a low-carbon economy. A new development path of low-carbon energy is being sought so as to prevent the devastating effects of the high-carbon energy system which presently dominates the world. Many developing countries including Nigeria are being faced with the challenges of achieving economic development through a low-carbon energy system because the present energy system is predominantly high-carbon energy dependent, using, for example, fossil fuels. To follow the low-carbon development path, building indigenous innovation capability in emerging and developing countries becomes paramount, instead of relying on a mere technology transfer from developed countries which, most of the time, is in the form of hardware. As a result of the double externality problem and market failures associated with new technological innovation, this study suggests a government policy driven model to achieve the development of sustainable low-carbon energy innovation in Nigeria. The study used descriptive analysis to capture information on the influence of government policy from university academia and members of the public, obtained through a questionnaire. ... How did the firms emerge (or the nodes get established) and how did they spread via linkages (if they did)? With reference to the concept of technological capability (Lall, 1993(Lall, , 2000, how is that capability changing within some firms as well as at the economy level in the course of the above processes? 44 Was the 'technological strangeness' encountered in certain lines of products overcome and with the aid of what policies? ... This article distinguishes between two types of division of labour discussed by Smith. The final-product-specialisation type
has been adopted as the basis of mainstream trade models that champion the benefits of free trade. The division-of-production-operations
type can be extended through the works of Marx (transition to modern industry based on forms of manufacture), Young (industrial
differentiation) and Hirschman (linkages). Through this some countries started reaping more benefits from increasing returns,
engendering incipient uneven development that aggravates under unrestricted economic integration between them and the trailing
countries. In the modern era the leading countries’ trans-national corporations have further shaped the international division
of production operations, resulting in different forms of enclave development when their activities are unregulated. Under
recently reached multi-lateral agreements that limit the use of subsidies and investment measures and strengthen the protection
of intellectual property rights, uneven development would be sustained. Some future research directions are considered. ... It is therefore elusive to distinguish between innovation and diffusion, especially in the case of complex technologies (McNerney et al., 2011;Nelson and Winter, 1982;Rosenberg, 1982). Second, innovation occurs not only at the global frontier but whenever firms adopt technologies in new organizations and contexts (Lall, 1993). Third, the competitiveness of firms in developing countries is dependent on more than just access to intellectual property and technology imports. ... The series of recent UNFCCC conferences starting with Bali in 2007 until Lima in 2014 have paved the way for the integration of nationally determined initiatives into the global climate governance architecture. National 'green growth' strategies have become a new paradigm for policymakers and executives. Designed with the aim of decoupling economic development from adverse environmental impacts, these bottom-up policies hold the promise of overcoming the gridlock in international climate negotiations. Building on the literature on innovation research, this paper contributes to the understanding of technology strategies in the context of nationally appropriate mitigation actions (NAMAs) under the UNFCCC. It is evident that NAMAs aiming to create domestic industries by leveraging technological innovation must consider the characteristics of the targeted technology. Working from this notion, this paper proposes a heuristic to differentiate between four distinct types of technologies. Each type features specific forms of technological learning, value chain constellations and modes of technology transfer. We illustrate the four types using the cases of small hydro, wind turbines, electric vehicles and solar cells and discuss methodologies to classify further technologies ex-ante. We argue that the heuristic captures essential technological characteristics that NAMAs and international support mechanisms need to consider. The different forms of technological learning and value chain constellations are relevant for a country's choice of technological priorities, while the modes of technology transfer can inform strategies for implementation and international cooperation. We discuss technology-specific strategies for developing countries at different stages of development and international institutions such as the Green Climate Fund and the new Technology Mechanisms under the UNFCCC. ... While Singer I and II indicate that Singer was not oblivious to this type of consideration, it is nevertheless a reminder that one should probe into the structural and/or institutional differences in ownership that exist across different commodities and countries so that one can be in a better position to consider which country gets what share of the pie during the current boom for different types of food and commodities. Second, even if a resource-rich less-developed country can enjoy some sustained windfall profits from the current commodity boom, then as the beginning paragraph of the present section cautions, 40 On the subject of cultivating technological capabilities, the works of Lall (1992Lall ( , 1993 and other likeminded researchers would seem to fit in readily and nicely. 41 See, for instance, n. 16 above, and his reference to Park (1977) in n. 20. ... Rather than the thesis of a secular decline in the commodity terms of trade, Prebisch and Singer were more concerned with the income terms of trade. Consequently, they advocated (moderate) import substitution (IS) and recommended having it interweaved with export promotion (EP). To avoid technological dependence but achieve integrated industrialisation while coordinating IS with EP, Prebisch emphasised enhancing indigenous 'technological densities' and Singer stressed building the indigenous 'capacities to create wealth'. That means while foreign direct investments should be attracted, those activities should be managed and directed accordingly. Prebisch hoped to narrow the gap in centre–periphery technological uneven development while Singer aimed at tackling international dualism between rich and poor countries in the use of science and technology. ... 22 See e.g. Müller (1984), Goldhaber (1986), Street (1992), Lall (1993), and Granerud (1996). 23 Some, among them Goldhaber (1986), Akrich (1992), MacKenzie and Wajcman (1985) and Tjora (1997), argue for including the use of technology in the definition of technology itself; however, such definitions, in my humble opinion, blur the distinction between an artefact and an actor making use of this artefact. ... The theme of this study is how organisational framework conditions within the People’s
Republic of China (P.R.C.) influence the implementation of environmental technology projects
in the country. This is empirically documented and analysed through a case study of factors
influencing the implementation status of a Sino-Norwegian technological co-operation project
for prevention and control of oil spills, included in China’s Agenda 21 (CA21). Both Chinese
and Norwegian actors involved in the project initially seemed to give it high priority. However,
the Sino-Norwegian co-operation ended in 1998, after nearly four years of preparations.
Chinese authorities have implemented a limited version of the project, which has left both sides
in the co-operation at loss both economically and in terms of capacity building.
The report focuses on what role domestic organisational conditions in China plays for the
implementation of environmental technology projects there. The fact that other types of
domestic factors influencing project implementation (economic, financial, technological,
cognitive, etc.) should not be interpreted as downplaying the role of such factors.
The focus is on China’s Agenda 21 Project 6-8 in Yantai, Shandong Province, and not (only)
the Sino-Norwegian co-operation aspects of this project. Thus, reasons for less successful
project implementation related to Sino-Norwegian relations and/or domestic conditions in
Norway are dealt with only to a very limited extent in this report. Again, this should not be
interpreted as downplaying the role of such factors in securing successful project implementation.
Furthermore, it should be emphasised that while the Sino-Norwegian co-operation was
not particularly productive in this particular project, Norway and China has a long record of
environmental co-operation. Nor does the report imply that Sino-Norwegian co-operation
within the field of oil spill prevention and control as such is problematic. This report should be
taken as constructive input to this co-operation in order to make it even more successful in the
future.
The main theoretical argument in the report is the following: the more horizontally and
vertically fragmented authority is among the governmental actors involved in the implementation
of the case project, the less likely it is that the implementation status of the case project
is positive. Given that authority is fragmented horizontally and vertically: the weaker the
agencies implementing the project are, compared to organisational opponents of the project, the
less likely it is that the implementation status of the project is positive.
While not integrated in the analytical framework, a linkage is also suggested between the
prevalence of horizontal and vertical fragmentation of authority, relative organisational weakness
of implementing agencies, and two types of actor strategies. In this way, the analytical
framework comes closer to establishing clear-cut causal mechanisms from independent to dependent variables in the sense that it incorporates both structures and the actions of actors
influenced by these structures.
It was suggested that the less successful implementing agencies are in individual-cumorganisational
relation building with strategic partners, and in tactically translating the
technology to be used in the project to suit their own organisational purposes, the less likely it
is that the implementation status of Project 6-8 in Yantai (or “the Yantai project”, as it will
often be called throughout the report) is positive.
The implementation status of Project 6-8 in Yantai is judged as sub-optimal (but not as a total
failure) for four reasons. First, the project site and main technological focus have been moved
during the implementation process. Second, the capacity component of the project has been
given much less attention than the hardware part. Third, the Sino-Norwegian co-operation has
been discontinued. Fourth, a comprehensive and co-ordinated follow-up of the pilot project
seems unlikely given the organisational framework conditions in which it is embedded.
The implementation process of the Yantai project has been characterised by horizontal
fragmentation, for five reasons. First, not all the central planning bureaucracies having been
given the responsibility for co-ordinating China’s Agenda 21 (CA21) have been sufficiently
involved in its co-ordination in practice. Second, the environmental protection bureaucracy has
been ostracised from the CA21 process, and has therefore implemented parallel and/or
competing initiatives. Third, as the foreign economic co-operation bureaucracy has also been
excluded from the CA21 process, the division of responsibilities between this bureaucracy and
the CA21 administration has remained unclear in the implementation of the CA21 priority
projects. Fourth, Local Agenda 21 initiatives have not been sufficiently co-ordinated with the
implementation of CA21 priority projects on the central level. This is closely related to a fifth
and more general point, namely that the implementation of CA21 priority projects has not to a
sufficient extent been co-ordinated with the CA21 administration. Sixth, the division of
responsibilities between the local marine safety administration in the case study area on the one
hand, and the local government on the other does not seem to have been clarified.
The implementation process of Project 6-8 has been vertically fragmented as well. Partly
because it has been top-down initiated, it has not been anchored locally to a sufficient extent.
Furthermore, a clearly defined CA21 administrative structure is lacking of on lower levels of
government. Provincial and local-level subsidiaries have their own agenda, separate from of
central-level bureaucracies; this manifested itself in rivalry among different Ministry of
Communications (MOC) subsidiaries for the case project.
Because the implementation process of both CA21 at large and CA21 Project 6-8 in particular
has been vertically and horizontally fragmented, and because the agencies most closely
associated with CA21 have been organisationally weak, the Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been able to position itself within the issue area of marine oil pollution through
formulating and implementing the case project. The communications bureaucracy is still
organisationally stronger in relative terms along all parameters than its opponents (the oceanic
administration, and the environmental protection bureaucracy).
The planning, foreign economic co-operation and science and technology bureaucracies have
all been substantially weakened in absolute terms regarding jurisdiction after the 1998
restructuring, but still have considerable strength relative to their organisational opponents
regarding authority over CA21 administration. The strengthening of the CA21 administrative
centre itself in absolute terms has so far had minor implications for the CA21 administration.
This is true even for the environmental protection bureaucracy, although it has been
strengthened in relative terms both compared to the CA21 administration and the area of
marine oil pollution on all measured parameters.
The discontinuation of the Sino-Norwegian technology co-operation project in Yantai is
mainly explained by:
· Lack of integration of planning and foreign financing bureaucracies in CA21 at large and
the Yantai project in particular, and the subsequent lack of priority given to the project by
these bureaucracies.
· The central-local dimension of the fight for foreign funding.
· The lack of relation building with possible local funding sources, especially local
authorities, on the part of the local marine safety bureaucracy in the case area.
The project’s focus has seemingly narrowed from technology towards technicalities, due to the
local marine safety administration’s excessive focus on technical aspects of technology cooperation
(as opposed to MOC).
The changed technological (and geographic) profile of CA21 Project 6-8 seems to have been
caused by
· Lack of co-ordination between the CA21 administration and the implementing agency, as
well as the CA21 administration’s lack of capacity to follow up the project locally.
· The relative organisational strength of the communications bureaucracy compared to its
opponents in the issue area of marine oil pollution.
· The tactical translation of technology by MOC.
· Differing technological frames among the actors implementing the project.
A comprehensive and co-ordinated follow-up of the Yantai project is rather unlikely. Some of
the reasons are:
· Lack of co-ordination between the CA21 administration and implementing agencies.
· Lack of co-ordination between Local Agenda 21 initiatives and CA21 priority projects.
· CA21 lacks an administrative structure on lower administrative levels.
· The separate agenda of MOC’s local satellite, Yantai Maritime Safety Superintendent
Bureau (YMSSB), and its rivalry with other harbours for the Yantai project.
· The relative organisational strengthening of the environmental bureaucracy, which has
been ostracised from the CA21 process.
· The operative responsibilities in an emergency situation between YMSSB directly under
the central government, and the local government, seem unclear. ... The first strand of practice-oriented thinking comes from research on the role of economic institutionscommonly characterized as conventions, norms, routines, and rulesin shaping the dynamics of industrial and regional development. The concern with institutions has drawn on scholarship from evolutionary economics (e.g., Nelson and Winter, 1982;Lawson, 1997;Hodgson, 1999;Castellacci, 2006), management studies (e.g., Scott, 1995;Braun, 2005) and social studies of technology (e.g., Lall, 1993;Kemp et al., 1998;Ruttan, 2001). What characterizes these engagements with practice has been a concern with understanding how practices reveal institutional factors that govern, coordinate, and direct industries, socio-technical regimes, and regional economies. ... ... Innovation is increasingly reliant on the skills to use newly available knowledge and to combine it with the firm's knowledge reservoir (Lall, 1993). To that end, the capability to learn through interaction is a key factor for innovation. ... ... However, this exposure to and exchange of new ideas and techniques can only get translated into technological progress when the technical absorptive capacity of the economy is in place. Foreign firms can significantly contribute, directly or indirectly, in innovative activities in the host country (Lall, 1993) to adjust and adapt to its ecosystem. Kathuria (2001) and Goldar and Banga (2018) show evidence of existence of positive spillovers from the presence of foreignowned firms. ... Technology being incorporated in products, intermediate inputs and processes varies from sector to sector. Using annual time series data (1991–2017), a comparative performance of two sectors, namely, a high-tech (electronics and hardware) and low-tech (textiles and clothing), is undertaken to elaborate on the linkages between trade and technology. The empirical analysis in the form of auto regressive distributive lag (ARDL) testing approach to co-integration concludes that there is strong evidence of positive long-run relationship between extensive margin, gross fixed capital formation and revealed comparative advantage (RCA) with gross exports (GE) for the textile and clothing sector. Also, there runs a bidirectional Granger causality between RCA and GE and unidirectional Granger causality from GE to extensive and intensive margins and production value. However, there is a lack of evidence of long-run co-integration in the electronics sector. Still, a short-run positive causal relationship exists between lagged values of GE, intensive margin and production with GE. Together, the impact of these variables on the sector’s export performance varies, thus posing a challenge as well as providing a direction for the policies to reap further from this potential nexus of trade, investment and global value chains. ... First, path dependency is important in that indigenous emerging economy (EE) firms clearly need to develop their own production capabilities before they are able to upgrade and develop the capabilities for KI activities (Leonard-Barton, 1992;Lall, 1992Lall, , 1993Figueiredo, 2002;Altenburg, Schmitz, & Stamm, 2008). There is thus a necessary time lag between EE firms mastering the requirements of undertaking production activities and developing the capabilities required for KI activities, due to the necessities of organizational learning (Teece, 1986;Dixon & Meyer, 2014). ... MNEs shape the location of activities in the world economy, linking diverse regions in what has been called the global factory. This study portrays the evolution of incomes and employment in the global factory using a quantitative input–output approach. We find emerging economies forging ahead relative to advanced economies in income derived from fabrication activities, handling the physical transformation process of goods. In contrast, convergence in income derived from knowledge-intensive activities carried out in pre- and post-fabrication stages is much slower. We discuss possible barriers to catching-up and policy implications for emerging economies in developing innovation capabilities, stressing the pivotal role of MNEs. ... Companies and breeders have influenced food crops, both through the introduction of varieties requiring certain inputs and by encouraging the growth of crops that may be industrially processed [60]. In some areas, replacement of traditional crops, such as legumes, by high yielding modern varieties has badly affected food resilience through the incorrect application of fertilizers and pesticides owing to lack of knowledge or financial resources, resulting in low or no yields at all [61]." [1]. ... Global food systems are no longer sustainable for health, the environment, animal biodiversity and wellbeing, culinary traditions, socioeconomics, or small farmers. The increasing massive consumption of animal foods has been identified as a major determinant of unsustainability. However, today, the consumption of ultra-processed foods (UPFs) is also questioned. The main objective of this review is therefore to check the validity of this new hypothesis. We first identified the main ingredients/additives present in UPFs and the agricultural practices involved in their provision to agro-industrials. Overall, UPF production is analysed regarding its impacts on the environment, biodiversity, animal wellbeing, and cultural and socio-economic dimensions. Our main conclusion is that UPFs are associated with intensive agriculture/livestock and threaten all dimensions of food system sustainability due to the combination of low-cost ingredients at purchase and increased consumption worldwide. However, low-animal-calorie UPFs do not produce the highest greenhouse gas emissions (GHGEs) compared to conventional meat and dairy products. In addition, only reducing energy dense UPF intake, without substitution, might substantially reduce GHGEs. Therefore, significant improvement in food system sustainability requires urgently encouraging limiting UPF consumption to the benefit of mildly processed foods, preferably seasonal, organic, and local products. Objective:
This article critically analyses the development of industrial policy (IP) in Guanajuato, Mexico, through the reconstruction of its trajectory and the evolution of its approach. It focuses on the designed policy instruments to promote the automotive industry in this state, which has recently deployed a great dynamism, measured through the foreign direct investment attracted to the region.
Methodology:
The information presented is the result of the qualitative and interpretative analysis of specialized plans and programs. In order to analyse the evolution of industrial policy we reconstructed its trajectory through the consideration of legal landmarks and its policy approach (passive/active).
Results:
Two stages and their policy approach were identified: 1) Setting Basic Conditions-Passive Approach, and 2) Long-term Conditions-Active Approach. During the first stage IP focused on attracting FDI and building basic infrastructure; in the second stage, active instruments have been implemented which seek to promote specialized infrastructure, backward linkages, training, and technological transfer.
Limitations:
Information was gathered by the analysis of official documents and available statistics. It is important to carry out a critical analysis of the results of some of the established projects in the official documents through case studies or correlation studies between key indicators (eg. FDI vs employment, FDI vs insertion of local companies in the industry, among others).
Conclusions:
The policy instruments that have been implemented in Guanajuato have fomented the automotive industry consolidation in the region. Some positive economic results are: greater employment, advancement of local suppliers and training programs, among others. However, its influence on local development is weak. IP should focus on the building of local absorptive capabilities to benefit from the generated externalities from FDI. ... Technological development is a key element in ensuring that SMEs can be able to compete in both the domestic and international markets (Goldstein, Pinaud, Reisen, & Chen, 2006). Lall (1993) points out that technological activities should be imagined by thinking beyond the firms, as a single SME does not have the necessary knowledge to introduce new products and processes thus the need to interact with home and foreign players in creating and advancing the technology being used. A study by Levy, Berry, and Nugent (1999) concluded that SMEs, both formal and informal, build their technological capabilities by drawing from international exhibitions, licensing agreement or from vertical integration links as in the case of Korea and Japan, respectively. ... Informal Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) play a key role in their respective economies over the world particularly in the African continent. This paper reviews various theories on SMEs towards understanding the potential of the informal sector in the context of African countries. The paper uses a theoretical approach for the purpose of assessing the challenges that have affected the development of the informal SMEs sector over the years in both the developing and developed world. Economically developing countries in Africa pose unique challenges to informal SMEs development compared to the developed countries. The paper reviews the theories that define the rise to informality in Africa by identifying the key determinants for the emergence of informal SMEs. A conceptual framework for assessing informal SME’s potential for Africa is developed. The conceptual framework is based on the Fishbone diagram developed by Kaoru Ishikawa (1986). This paper discusses the intricacies of the applicability of the proposed conceptual framework to assess the potential of the informal SMEs in Africa and the way forward for the formalization debate. ... The task of learning and acquiring capabilities necessary to support catch-up development is costly and uncertain (Lall, 1993). For structuralists, successful late development is primarily about countries acquiring new technologies and learning to use them appropriately (Amsden, 2001;Lall, 1992Lall, , 1996. ... Rwanda's economic recovery since the genocide is largely associated with the government's effective leadership. This paper questions that narrative, highlighting that failure—rather than consistent effectiveness—is a common feature of productive sector policies in late developing countries and that the Rwandan case is no different. Using three examples where Rwanda's party‐owned investment group (Crystal Ventures Ltd) has been used as a key agent in productive sector policies, the paper finds that outcomes of learning from failure have varied significantly, highlighting some way to go before the government's developmental ambitions are met. Copyright Amongst economists, politicians, environmentalists and others a relatively new phrase has come to the fore, a new cliche´: sustainable development. Its meaning is, however, somewhat obscure, often unique to the speaker. This paper clarifies some of the ideas that surround the concept of sustainable development, the role that technology plays in the ideas and how these concepts can be best put to use in terms of policy. Often the preconceived notions of the authors are imbedded in their idea of sustainable development, sometimes explicitly and othertimes implicitly and, as a result, the policy prescriptions they espouse are also affected. The paper begins with the evolution of the concept of sustainable development, examines economists' decision rules, evaluates the role of the state vis-a`-vis technology and then attempts to ferret out the policy implications. Finally, the paper concludes that sustainability should be a goal of any development plan and should include an explicit technology policy. A range of policy options exists to help pursue these goals, some of which are discussed. "Despite often playing second fiddle to clusters in the economic geography literature, multinationals are fundamental drivers of economic development. As generators and diffusers of knowledge they have played an essential role in shaping the new world economic order. No book captures this better than Simona Iammarino and Philip McCann's Multinationals and Economic Geography, a must read for anyone eager to fully understand the new economic geography of globalisation.' - Andrés Rodríguez-Pose, London School of Economics, UK". Translating university technology via the university–industry route faces an array of challenges. Subsequently, understanding the interrelationships of these challenges hopes to provide a better outlook on the complex nature of the university technology transfer (UTT) process. Such an agenda remains a gap in the domain literature. To advance this oversight, this study intends to identify the UTT challenges and determine their complex contextual relationships. The interpretative structural modeling, together with the MICMAC analysis, was sequentially adopted to derive the overarching structure of the challenges of UTT. A case study in a public university in the Philippines was conducted to carry out these objectives. Findings show that time constraints, knowledge being too theoretical, high costs of managing joint research projects, complex organizational structure, institutional bureaucracy, geographic distance, and lack of national benchmark are driving challenges that influence other challenges in impeding UTT in the representative Philippine university. These findings provide policy insights to key decision-makers and stakeholders on the success of technology transfers. Knowledge-transfer relationships have become an increasingly important issue for firms in emerging economies; they offer a means of upgrading skills in the face of growing international competition. Knowledge-transfer relationships also are very difficult. Firms face uncertainties about both the types of knowledge needed, and the ability of potential partners to supply necessary knowledge (Easterby-Smith etal., 2008).Research on the knowledge-based view of the firm, reputation and status can provide insight into these problems. We use concepts from these areas of work to analyze knowledge-transfer in a sample of Chinese SMEs. We find that the status of partner firms provides an indicator of possessing valuable knowledge. This information can reduce some of the uncertainties of knowledge-transfer faced by managers. The research also addresses a gap in the work on knowledge-transfer. Few studies have examined the direct relationship between knowledge-transfer and performance (Easterby-Smith etal., 2008; Williams, 2007). It also contributes to the study of emerging economy business from the standpoint of local firms (Hitt etal., 2000). Rather than the thesis of a secular decline in the commodity terms of trade, Prebisch and Singer were more concerned with
the income terms of trade. Consequently, they advocated (moderate) import substitution (IS) and recommended having it interweaved
with export promotion (EP). To avoid technological dependence but achieve integrated industrialisation while coordinating
IS with EP, Prebisch emphasised enhancing indigenous ‘technological densities’ and Singer stressed building the indigenous
‘capacities to create wealth’. That means while foreign direct investments should be attracted, those activities should be
managed and directed accordingly. Prebisch hoped to narrow the gap in centre–periphery technological uneven development while
Singer aimed at tackling international dualism between rich and poor countries in the use of science and technology. Purpose
– The purpose of this paper is to increase understanding and knowledge of the impact of globalisation on African small and medium enterprise (SME) development. The contribution of SMEs to manufacturing industrialisation can be viewed in the context of the changing setting of globalisation. Globalisation is a description as well as a prescription. It can be broadly defined as closer economic integration as a result of rapid advances in technology, growth of world trade and competition, and policy changes towards economic liberalisation. Globalisation can also pose a challenge on how SMEs in Africa should brace themselves to respond to – and take advantages of – the changes, and carve an appropriate position in the global competitive economy.
Design/methodology/approach
– The paper reviews and synthesises the eclectic literature and also draws from the experiences of both developed and developing economies.
Findings
– The evidence from the literature points to several stumbling blocks that prevent African manufacturing SMEs from participating successfully in the global economy. These include problems with exports, technology, competitiveness and inter-firm linkages as well as barriers in the institutional and policy environments.
Originality/value
– The paper will be useful to businesses, researchers, policy makers, civil society and others interested in understanding the impact of globalisation on manufacturing SME development. This study determines the underlying determinants of supply chain operational capabilities (SCOC) and empirically tests a framework that can be used to identify the relationship among those determinants and business performance with special emphasis on small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Malaysia. The study is based on a quantitative approachusing a questionnaire survey from 135 Malaysian manufacturing SMEs. The empirical findings provide evidence on the relationship between structural and technological capability with business performance. However, it was found that there was no support on the impactof logistical capability on business performance. The most critical limitation of thisstudy was its narrow focus on the manufacturing sector in Malaysian SMEs, thus, preventingthe generalisation to other sectors and also to other countries that may gain the benefits from the responsiveness of SCOC. This study might offer several practical implications which could have some practical values for SMEs' practitioners and managers particularly in Malaysia. We investigate how industrial disasters can discourage FDI and how MNCs’ technological, safety management, and philanthropic capabilities can moderate these effects. Using two unique panel datasets of entry and expansion of U.S. wholly-owned manufacturing subsidiaries overseas, we found that industrial disasters are associated with reduced foreign entry of wholly-owned subsidiaries in the disaster industry, but not for all firms in the host country experiencing the disaster. We also found that MNCs’ technological, safety management, and philanthropic capabilities can, in some cases, positively moderate the negative relationships between industrial disasters and the foreign entry and expansion of wholly-owned subsidiaries. Additionally, three-way interactions with government stability suggest that technological and safety management capabilities substitute government stability in managing industrial disasters, while philanthropic capability complements government stability. AI is being reconfigured as a set of technologies that can address poverty with precision. The impacts of Artificial Intelligence (AI) will both exacerbate and ameliorate the conditions of uneven development. Recent debates focus on the disruptive effects of AI, particularly to replication of development trajectories that have had success in reducing poverty. In this article we further these debates by analysing the backroads of AI. The backroads serve as a metaphor for understanding the ways AI will travel from the sites of incubation to the frontlines of uneven development. We explore dialogues between AI and development in two arenas: the World Bank's Development Impact and Evaluation Initiative (DIME) and the Government of India's national AI strategy #AIforAll. We argue that both these arenas serve as hubs from which AI will travel out along the backroads to remote, poor, and fragmented polities. While the World Bank utilises AI as technology to empower experts and mobilise a techno‐political authority, what we refer to as precision AI, India seeks to function as a second tier AI hub, making AI cheaper and more accessible domestically and for other developing countries, what we refer to as populist AI. We conclude by discussing the interrelations of precision and populist AI along the backroads, and the potential of backroads research for mapping AI, uneven geographies of development and technology and the impacts of AI’s disruptions at different scales. This dissertation decomposes output growth into the size effect, technological change and technical efficiency using panel data for Vermont dairy farms based on single equation production function models. Three functional forms are estimated: two CobbDouglas, one with a smooth time trend and the other with time-specific dummy variables to model technological change, and a simplified translog incorporating smooth
technological change. These models are estimated using fixed effects and stochastic frontier techniques. For the latter, either a half normal or a truncated normal distribution for the efficiency component is assumed. The results reveal that the fixed effects and truncated normal models yield an average technical efficiency equal to 0.77 for both the time variant and invariant cases. In contrast, the half normal models yield average
technical efficiencies around 0.86.
Statistical tests favor the modified translog against the Cobb-Douglas functional form, and the truncated normal distribution against the half normal. The time variant technical efficiency hypothesis is rejected for the stochastic frontiers, but accepted for the fixed effects models. Results from Hausman tests show that farm-specific effects are correlated with the inputs included in the production functions. Thus, in this study, the
fixed effects technique dominates the stochastic production frontier methodology.
The decomposition of output growth reveals a 2.54% annual increase in milk production for the fixed effects modified translog model- - 1.41 % attributable to the size effect, 0.94% to technological progress and 0.19% to technical efficiency. The rate of output growth for the fixed effects Cobb-Douglas model is 2.46% per year - - 1.38%, 1.01 % and 0.07% attributable to the size effect, technological progress and technical
efficiency, respectively.
The analysis indicates that the size effect and technological progress are the dominant sources of output growth. This fmding is consistent with the trend towards larger dairy farms observed over the last several decades. However, the average farmer in the sample was found to be well below its potential level of output, while the average increase in technical efficiency over time was nominal. This last result implies that
improvements in technical efficiency could lead to considerable gains in farm level productivity. This paper develops a conceptual framework and discusses the interrelationships among innovative culture, social networks, environmental characteristic, innovation strategy, and technological capability. Based on resource-based theory, this research employs the innovative culture, social networks and environmental characteristic resources to examine their influences on technological capability. The role of innovation strategy is discussed as a mediator, and the Manufacturing Industry in Malaysia is examined. All of the findings completely or partially support our research hypotheses. We conclude with a discussion of the managerial implications of our findings and directions for future research. How does globalization influence transitions toward more sustainable socio-technical regimes in the developing world? This paper argues that transformations of regimes, the networks and institutions governing technological and environmental practices in an industry, can be positively influenced by globalization but it depends on how global forces interact with local socio-political landscapes—the political–economic institutions, values, and regulations broadly guiding an economy and its relationship to the environment. We evaluate these relationships through a comparison of two kinds of socio-political landscapes—the neo-liberal export-led development model commonly found in the developing world and the uniquely Asian capitalist developmental state. We first show how the neo-liberal model overemphasizes the power of market forces to facilitate upgrading and more sustainable industrialization. We then argue that capitalist developmental states in East and Southeast Asia have been better able to harness global economic forces for technological and sustainability transitions through an openness to trade and investment and effective public–private institutions able to link cleaner technologies and environmental standards to production activities in firms. We buttress this argument with firm-level evidence showing the evolution of socio-technical regimes in two industries—cement and electronics. The case studies demonstrate how interactions with OECD firms can contribute to environmental technique effects provided the socio-political landscape is amenable to changes in an industry's regime. Ultimately, we find the process of transition to be complex and contingent; a hard slog not a leap frog toward a potentially more sustainable future. We close by considering the limitations on the capitalist developmental state model and with comments about what else needs to be learned about globalization's role in sustainability transitions. Most would probably agree that technical progress is ‘one of the prime movers of economic growth’1 especially since it is rightly perceived to be a crucial ingredient in the process of industrialization. Technology is a key ‘input’, in that it combines the various factors of production. This ‘factor’2 partly accounts for the ability of Korea (and the other NICs) to modify the composition of output, improve productivity, enhance competitiveness and benefit from higher value-added in new segments of world markets. Despite its importance, little attention has been given to Korea’s acquisition of foreign technology in much of the literature on Korea, which is surprising given the general interest in her industrial development. Informal Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) play a key role in their respective economies over the world particularly in the African continent. This paper reviews various theories on SMEs towards understanding the potential of the informal sector in the context of African countries. The paper uses a theoretical approach for the purpose of assessing the challenges that have affected the development of the informal SMEs sector over the years in both the developing and developed world. Economically developing countries in Africa pose unique challenges to informal SMEs development compared to the developed countries. The paper reviews the theories that define the rise to informality in Africa by identifying the key determinants for the emergence of informal SMEs. A conceptual framework for assessing informal SME’s potential for Africa is developed. The conceptual framework is based on the Fishbone diagram developed by Kaoru Ishikawa (1986). This paper discusses the intricacies of the applicability of the proposed conceptual framework to assess the potential of the informal SMEs in Africa and the way forward for the formalization debate. The purpose of this chapter is to discuss some theoretical issues latent in the basic ideas behind the IDB-ECLA research programme in science and technology, and now being sharpened by the empirical findings that are emerging. The programme presumes that manufacturing development in countries that are not technological leaders may involve significant elements of creativity and innovation. The empirical studies are finding this to be so. The technologies employed in Latin American manufacturing plants tend to be somewhat idiosyncratic and not easily describable as merely backwards. Further, technologies employed differ significantly among firms within the same country. Innovation, idiosyncracy, and diversity, are not characteristics of manufacturing development highlighted by most formal development models, and indeed these characteristics are hard to reconcile with orthodox formal theory. Yet there they are, certainly interesting and probably important features of the development landscape. With the publication of his best-selling books "Competitive Strategy (1980) and "Competitive Advantage (1985), Michael E. Porter of the Harvard Business School established himself as the world's leading authority on competitive advantage. Now, at a time when economic performance rather than military might will be the index of national strength, Porter builds on the seminal ideas of his earlier works to explore what makes a nation's firms and industries competitive in global markets and propels a whole nation's economy. In so doing, he presents a brilliant new paradigm which, in addition to its practical applications, may well supplant the 200-year-old concept of "comparative advantage" in economic analysis of international competitiveness. To write this important new work, Porter and his associates conducted in-country research in ten leading nations, closely studying the patterns of industry success as well as the company strategies and national policies that achieved it. The nations are Britain, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States. The three leading industrial powers are included, as well as other nations intentionally varied in size, government policy toward industry, social philosophy, and geography. Porter's research identifies the fundamental determinants of national competitive advantage in an industry, and how they work together as a system. He explains the important phenomenon of "clustering," in which related groups of successful firms and industries emerge in one nation to gain leading positions in the world market. Among the over 100 industries examined are the German chemical and printing industries, Swisstextile equipment and pharmaceuticals, Swedish mining equipment and truck manufacturing, Italian fabric and home appliances, and American computer software and movies. Building on his theory of national advantage in industries and clusters, Porter identifies the stages of competitive development through which entire national economies advance and decline. Porter's finding are rich in implications for both firms and governments. He describes how a company can tap and extend its nation's advantages in international competition. He provides a blueprint for government policy to enhance national competitive advantage and also outlines the agendas in the years ahead for the nations studied. This is a work which will become the standard for all further discussions of global competition and the sources of the new wealth of nations. This chapter presents a discussion on a few major recurring themes that have been prominent in the literature on industrialization. The chapter discusses the initial conditions at the beginning of the post-colonial period and their relation to subsequent industrial development. The chapter describes the determinants of the growing relative importance of the sector. Productivity growth and its relation to international trade orientation are discussed at the sectoral level. The chapter also discusses studies of the efficiency of individual firms. The employment effects of industrialization are examined and conclusions are presented. The Lewis–Fei–Ranis two-sector model provides a useful guide to the role of manufacturing in the development process of a country without an international trade sector. In the immediate post-war period, the potential for industrial development varied considerably among less developed countries (LDCs). In Brazil, Egypt, and India—for example, relatively large manufacturing firms had 60 or 70 years of industrial experience, primarily in food processing and textiles. Two countries, the Republic of Korea and Taiwan, which would later prove quite successful, possessed a considerable base of education and industrial experience. Among the major concerns of analysts of industrial sector, performance has been the failure to create jobs for the burgeoning labor force. The chapter also includes cross-country models, the Hirschman hypothesis, the choice of technology, and so on. What are the determinants of appropriate industrial strategy under different circumstances? There is no universally accepted answer. This paper deals with two new elements in the contemporary debate, which centers around the efficacy of the neoclassically-prescribed neutral policy regime. One element is research demonstrating that market forces alone are not responsible for the purported ‘market successes’ of the East Asian NICs. With Korea as the case in point, this research is reviewed to draw some lessons about successful industrial strategy. The other element is an evolving conceptualization that puts technological change at the heart of industrialization. The underlying firm-level case-study research is surveyed and implications are derived regarding the nature as well as the extent of market failures affecting industrialization. It is argued throughout that industrial strategy should be seen as a matter of managing technological change to achieve dynamically efficient industrialization. Published originally in 1990 to critical acclaim, Robert Wade's Governing the Market quickly established itself as a standard in contemporary political economy. In it, Wade challenged claims both of those who saw the East Asian story as a vindication of free market principles and of those who attributed the success of Taiwan and other countries to government intervention. Instead, Wade turned attention to the way allocation decisions were divided between markets and public administration and the synergy between them. Now, in a new introduction to this paperback edition, Wade reviews the debate about industrial policy in East and Southeast Asia and chronicles the changing fortunes of these economies over the 1990s. He extends the original argument to explain the boom of the first half of the decade and the crash of the second, stressing the links between corporations, banks, governments, international capital markets, and the International Monetary Fund. From this, Wade goes on to outline a new agenda for national and international development policy. In the literature on industrialization, very little is known about the length of the infant industry period. This paper argues that the paucity of knowledge in this area is a serious weakness. Evidence from perhaps, the most successful country of the past 20 years, South Korea, suggests that the learning time in the engineering industry is much longer than anticipated; two decades does not seem to be unusual. It is also argued that due to both the speed of technical change and the globalization of industries, the learning time has been extended in the past decades. Tentative implications are drawn for industrialization models and for industrial policy. Technological activities in the semi-industrial economies of Latin America leading to the adaptation of imported technologies as well as the development of new products and processes, have been both an involuntary byproduct of manufacturing activities and the result of deliberate decisions to set up technological research facilities. Technological research reported by Latin American firms is shown to be largely complementary to production and carried out to reap the extra benefits of protection. External effects are thus disregarded since the benefits from industrial production suffice to induce the requisite adaptive research. The paper suggests that the as yet not well understood interaction between industrial and technological development be studied by: focusing on technology as information and engineers as its processors, looking at the learning stages from using imports to the creation of new products, and examining these processes in terms of a progression toward increasing technological complexity. This study develops an evolutionary theory of the capabilities and behavior of business firms operating in a market environment. It includes both general discussion and the manipulation of specific simulation models consistent with that theory. The analysis outlines the differences between an evolutionary theory of organizational and industrial change and a neoclassical microeconomic theory. The antecedents to the former are studies by economists like Schumpeter (1934) and Alchian (1950). It is contrasted with the orthodox theory in the following aspects: while the evolutionary theory views firms as motivated by profit, their actions are not assumed to be profit maximizing, as in orthodox theory; the evolutionary theory stresses the tendency of most profitable firms to drive other firms out of business, but, in contrast to orthodox theory, does not concentrate on the state of industry equilibrium; and evolutionary theory is related to behavioral theory: it views firms, at any given time, as having certain capabilities and decision rules, as well as engaging in various ‘search' operations, which determines their behavior; while orthodox theory views firm behavior as relying on the use of the usual calculus maximization techniques. The theory is then made operational by the use of simulation methods. These models use Markov processes and analyze selection equilibrium, responses to changing factor prices, economic growth with endogenous technical change, Schumpeterian competition, and Schumpeterian tradeoff between static Pareto-efficiency and innovation. The study's discussion of search behavior complicates the evolutionary theory. With search, the decision making process in a firm relies as much on past experience as on innovative alternatives to past behavior. This view combines Darwinian and Lamarkian views on evolution; firms are seen as both passive with regard to their environment, and actively seeking alternatives that affect their environment. The simulation techniques used to model Schumpeterian competition reveal that there are usually winners and losers in industries, and that the high productivity and profitability of winners confer advantages that make further success more likely, while decline breeds further decline. This process creates a tendency for concentration to develop even in an industry initially composed of many equal-sized firms. However, the experiments conducted reveal that the growth of concentration is not inevitable; for example, it tends to be smaller when firms focus their searches on imitating rather than innovating. At the same time, industries with rapid technological change tend to grow more concentrated than those with slower progress. The abstract model of Schumpeterian competition presented in the study also allows to see more clearly the public policy issues concerning the relationship between technical progress and market structure. The analysis addresses the pervasive question of whether industry concentration, with its associated monopoly profits and reduced social welfare, is a necessary cost if societies are to obtain the benefits of technological innovation. (AT) This report is the fourteenth in an annual series assessing major development issues. This report synthesizes and interprets the lessons of more than forty years of development experience. Together with last year's report on poverty and next year's on the environment, it seeks to provide a comprehensive overview of the development agenda. The 1990s began with dramatic changes, as many countries in Eastern Europe and elsewhere initiated ambitious reforms of their economic and political systems. Against the backdrop of these transitions, this report links the historical debates that counseled policymakers in their past decisions, the lessons of experience, and the evolving thought on how best to proceed. One of the most valuable lessons relates to the interaction between the state and the market in fostering development. It describes a market-friendly approach in which governments allow markets to function well, and in which governments concentrate their interventions on areas in which markets prove inadequate. The report looks at four main aspects of the relationship between governments and markets: (a) investing in people; (b) the climate for enterprises to flourish; (c) the integration of countries with the global economy; and (d) a stable macroeconomic foundation for sustained progress. The report stresses that, above all, the future of developing countries is in their own hands. Domestic policies and institutions hold the key to successful development. In this paper we examine Australian data on national and regional employment numbers, focusing in particular on whether there have been common national and regional changes in the volatility of employment. A subsidiary objective is to assess whether the results derived from traditional growth rate models are sustained when alternative filtering methods are used. In particular, we compare the results of the growth rate models with those obtained from Hodrick-Prescott models. Using frequency filtering methods in conjunction with autoregressive modeling, we show that there is considerable diversity in the regional pattern of change and that it would be wrong to suppose that results derived from the aggregate employment series are generally applicable across the regions. The results suggest that the so-called great moderation may have been less extensive than aggregate macro studies suggest. The debate about the role of the state in promoting industrial growth in developing economies is reviewed. We begin with the ideas of the early development economists of the 1950s and 1960s, then take up two waves of neoclassical criticism (respectively emphasizing the primacy of the market and the lack of autonomy and competence of the developmentalist state), and sketch the elements of a countercritique. The fact that all successfully developing economies apply industrial strategies incorporating institutional change is emphasized, and boundary conditions and lessons from experience which delimit sensible strategic choices are pointed out. This survey looks at the technological development of the newly industrializing countries to draw some important lessons for firms and governments in other developing countries. First, inventing products and processes is not at the center of the technological development needed for successful industrialization. It is at the fringe. What is at the center is acquiring the capabilities needed for efficient production and investment. Second, some countries have overemphasized the drive for technological self-sufficiency and paid a high price in poor productivity. What makes the best economic sense is to combine foreign and local technological elements—and to do this in a way that progressively develops local capabilities in areas where they can be more efficient. Third, the acquisition of technological capability does not come merely from experience, though experience is important. It comes from conscious efforts — to monitor what is being done, to try new things, to keep track of developments throughout the world, to accumulate added skills, and to increase the ability to respond to new pressures and opportunities. Fourth, the economic environment, through its influence on the technological efforts of firms, is very important in determining the productivity of a country's resources. The environment is shaped by the incentives and penalties that affect the way firms use and adapt technology. It is also shaped by the activities of specialized technological agents that can provide technological information, means, and understanding to firms. This essay presents an overview of the prevailing theoretical literature on innovation, probes the adequacy of existing theory to guide policy regarding innovation, and sketches some directions for more fruitful theorizing. The focus is on the vast interindustry differences in rates of productivity growth, and other manifestations of differential rates of technological progress across industries. It is argued that the most important policy issues involve finding ways to make the currently lagging sectors more progressive, if in fact that can be done. Theory, to be useful, therefore must organize knowledge and guide research regarding what lies behind the uneven performance of the different economic sectors. In fact prevailing theory cannot do this, for two basic reasons. One is that theory is fragmented, and knowledge and research fall into a number of disjoint intellectual traditions. The second is that the strongest of the research traditions that bear on the differential innovation puzzle, research by economists organized around trying to ‘fit’ production functions and explain how production functions ‘shift’, neglects two central aspects of the problem; that innovation involves uncertainty in an essential way, and that the institutional structure supporting innovation varies greatly from sector to sector. The bulk of the paper is concerned with sketching a theoretical structure that appears to bridge a number of presently separate subfields of study of innovation, and which treats uncertainty and institutional diversity centrally. This paper analyzes some key factors affecting the acquisition of technological capabilities by industries in the less developed countries. It uses the findings of an extensive survey of historical experience in industrial plants in Latin America to examine: the sequence in which different types of capability are acquired, the differing impact on acquisition of different ways of organizing production, the effects of firm-level and wider macroeconomic variables on the nature and pace of acquisition, and the issues involved in promoting the acquisition of technological capabilities through protecting infant industries in different circumstances regarding market size and the nature of the technology employed. This paper reports findings from a literature survey to learn about the performance of infant industries in less developed countries. Remarkably little direct evidence was uncovered about the costs and benefits of developing these industries. But the findings indicate that infant firms have experienced relatively slow productivity growth. Thus many infants started quite some time ago apparently have so far failed to achieve international competitiveness. The findings suggest tentative conclusions about the causes of the failure. Insufficient productivity growth to achieve and maintain competitiveness seems to reflect the absence of sustained efforts to acquire and use the capabilities necessary for continuous technological change. Far more than stemming from experience alone, these capabilities appear to increase to needed levels only through consciously allocating resources to acquire them. In my book Scale and Scope (1990), I focused on the history of the modern industrial firm from the 1880s, when such firms first appeared, through World War II. I did so by comparing the fortunes of more than 600 enterprises—the 200 largest industrial firms at three points in time (World War I, 1929, and World War II) in each of the three major industrial economies (those of the United States, Britain, and Germany). In this paper, I first describe the similarities in the historical beginnings and continuing evolution of these enterprises and then outline my explanation for these similarities. Next, I relate my explanation of these "empirical regularities" to four major economic theories relating to the firm: the neoclassical, the principal-agent, the transaction cost, and the evolutionary. Finally, I suggest the value of the transactions cost and evolutionary theories to historians and economists who are attempting to explain the beginnings and growth of modern industrial enterprises. This paper explores the causes and consequences of the more important market failures which impede the development of LOCs, and explains why the non-market institutions which often ameliorate the effects of market failures in developed countries are less effective- in doing so in LOCs. This paper focuses, in particular, on those market failures which arise from imperfect information (as in the capital market) or which are almost inevitably associated with the learning which must occur if the less developed countries are successfully to make the transition to being more developed. learning, Among the consequences of learning-by-doing, of localized and of learning-to-learn are imperfections of competition, multiple equilibria, hysteresis, and the optimality of non-myopic policies. These market failures are markedly different from those that were the center of attention in earlier literature, which led to arguments for government planning. Government interventions need to recognize the source of market failures; informational problems affect the government no less than the private sector. In some cases, interventions should be directed at making markets work more effectively; in other cases, the government may take a role in establishing non-market institutions to ameliorate the effects of market failure. Recommended publications The economic, infrastructure, human, social, and educational criteria for selecting appropriate technologies for development have an added dimension of dynamic change as a nation develops. The timetable of rapid change held by many developing nations often is conducive to considering many factors before arriving at a program of development that meets the particular needs of each country and those ... [Show full abstract] of its partners in development. Of great importance are the amounts of time involved in training people to be productive, in acquiring equipment necessary for production, and in putting together all the parts necessary to produce results useful to large numbers of the local inhabitants. The process of technology transfer should provide benefits in some appropriate fashion to both the supplier and the recipient of the transfer so each will put its best efforts into the cooperation required. How could relative underdevelopment pose a constraint to the harnessing of technological change and increased output productivity due to technological developments? In this paper one possible chain of causation in the understanding of this question is suggested. It is argued that fragmentation of markets and the absence of industrial deepening, both factors characteristic of developing country ... [Show full abstract] markets, could constitute important barriers to the adoption of firm strategies that promote technological efficiency in producer goods sectors. The fragmentation of markets (due to poor infrastructure) prevents specialization and thus impedes technological learning through this route. The lack of industrial deepening implies that a large proportion of demand for intermediate producer goods emerges from households in the economy rather than firms. Technology transfer is a common method for companies to acquire new technology and presents both challenges and substantial benefits. In some cases especially in developing countries, the mere possession of technology does not guarantee a competitive advantage if the appropriate infrastructure is not in place. In this paper, we identify the localization factors needed to provide a better ... [Show full abstract] understanding of the conditions necessary for localization in order to benefit from future technology developments. Our theoretical and empirical analyses allow us to identify several factors in the technology transfer process that affect localization and provide leverage in enhancing capabilities and absorptive capacity.The impact factors are categorized within different groups of government, firms, institutes and market, and are verified through the empirical survey of a technology transfer experience. Moreover, statistical analysis has allowed a deeper understanding of the importance of each factor and has enabled each group to prioritize their organizational policies to effectively localize their technology. Although limited technology transfer among countries has occurred in the past 15 years or so, industrialised countries are unwilling to transfer their state-of-the-art technologies to less developed countries, for both political and economic reasons. As a result, China decided to speed research and development of its own high technologies and commercialise them by establishing in the late 1980s ... [Show full abstract] 52 High and New Technology Industry Development Zones. Through these zones achievements of scientific research could be transformed into competitive commodities and a new generation of entrepreneurs and competent managers could be bred. While China’s high technology development zones were modelled on the general concept of technopole, they are not exact duplicates of any of the three types of technopole that have been developed in the Western industrialised countries; they have distinct Chinese characteristics. This study also found that contrary to the popular belief, the high technology zones in coastal provinces as a whole do not perform much better than those in interior provinces. Instead, the majority of the zones that are located in provincial capital cities exhibited above-average performance. This suggests that capital cities in interior provinces can compete well with coastal cities in development of high-tech industries. 