The role of science and technology in a future Korean society
may be broadly stated as one of meeting felt needs by
technological innovation and scientific advancement and of
realizing long-term national goals for the next century. These
goals fall under the following six headings: To ensure national security and social stability For a resource-poor country like the Republic of Korea,
conserving energy and oil-substitutable energy is vital. Food
technology is similarly important to maintain social stability.
Science and technology are expected to play a vitally important
role in ensuring national security and social stability. To sustain the growth of the national economy and to improve
its efficiency In the past, technological progress made only a minor
contribution to the growth of national income, and this should be
changed. Furthermore, the technological gap with developed
countries should be reduced in certain strategically selected
areas. At the same time, technology intensification should be
undertaken in small and medium-scale enterprises, which take
approximately 97.5 per cent of the total, but contribute only 36
per cent to the Korean economy in terms of value added
production. To prepare for a smooth transition to an information society Societal change to an information society will demand the
development of information-related industries centred around
micro-electronics, communications, computers, etc. Moreover,
reducing the labour component of production systems through
automation technology will require re-education of displaced
labour. To improve the quality of life Technology in areas of public health such as disease control,
medicine and medical electronics needs to be developed. Another
area is the protection of the environment for better dwelling
conditions on the one hand, and for increased productivity of the
land on the other. Development of information technology directly related to
daily living, it should be noted, will increase social benefits,
and this in turn will help reduce urbanization. The preference
for urban living will disappear with the development of an
information system on a nationwide scale. To create a new culture suitable for the new society A conflict between traditional cultural values and progressive
contemporary values has existed in Korean society during the
recent process of industrialization. A national consensus should
be created for the development of science and technology. Another
far-reaching goal of science and technology is the creation of a
new culture for the next century. The long-term goal of science and technology should be in
accordance with that of national development. The national
development goal is stated as achieving equal ranking with the
developed countries by becoming the world's fifteenth in terms of
GNP and the tenth in terms of trade volume. To compensate for the
country's paucity of natural resources, the necessary goal for
S&T is to become no. 10 in the world in the area of
industrial technology. Because of the limitation in available resources, priority
areas should be established through consideration of, among other
things, national needs and comparative advantage. The role of
S&T is to lead national development and to support
socio-economic needs. The priority areas that have been
identified are: - Development of electronics, information, and
communication technologies. - Development of selected high technologies to lead the
industrial structure adjustment. - Development of key technologies to increase the
international competitiveness of existing Korean industries. - Development of technologies related to resources,
energy, and food for social and economic stability. - Development of technology in the area of health care,
environmental protection, and social information systems to
improve the quality of life and social benefits. - Fostering of creative basic research to promote
scientific advancement and to expand sources of technological
innovation. These priority areas were identified using the following basic
criteria: - Economic return and growth potential in view of limited
development resources.
- Probability of success in view of development capability
and experience.
- Indispensability in relation to national security and
socio-economic stability.
- Industrial and technological linkage.
- Future contribution in relation to public welfare and new
industrial possibilities. The report "Long-term Perspectives for Science and
Technology Development to the Year 2000" has laid down a set
of policy guidelines in accordance with these basic directions,
covering manpower, investment, national R&D systems,
technological information systems, financial and tax support
mechanisms, generation of a market for new technology products,
technology intensification of small business, formation of
R&D estates, build-up of a technology-oriented social
culture, and internationalization of science and technology and
international cooperation. Among the major recommendations were
the following: Manpower development will increase the proportion of
scientists and engineers to the level of 30 persons (from the
current 8 persons) per 10,000 population, amounting to about
150,000 scientists and engineers for R&D. Investment in
R&D will be expanded from 1.7 per cent of the GNP in 1985 to
over 3 per cent. The government and public sector will be
responsible for 40 per cent of the total, and the private sector
for the remaining 60 per cent, for which inducement policy
instruments will be improved. Top priority in investment will be
given to areas of high expected return, high linkage and
externality, indispensability, and high probability of success
and public interest. For an efficient division of R&D activities, industrial
firms would devote themselves to industrial technologies, whilst
national and public institutes would be responsible for
mission-oriented, applied research and for national projects of
high risk and externality, and universities for basic research
and manpower development, as well as for cooperation with public
sector institutes and industries. An efficient nationwide system of scientific and technological
information will be established to collect, manage, and
distribute information. Financial and tax support systems and
public procurement will be used to induce the private sector. In the next century, small and medium-scale industries will
grow to form the backbone of the national economy, because the
economic structure will change to one of "economies of
variety" rather than "economies of scale."
Therefore, support systems involving financial, tax, information,
and public procurement measures will be specially devised for the
technology intensification of small and medium-scale industries. In the 1990s, in order to integrate education and research,
particularly for high technology, R&D estates will be
constructed in various regions to form a network. Development of
technologies at regional level will contribute greatly to the
balanced development of the Republic of Korea. In order to modernize the economy, the Republic of Korea
adopted an unbalanced growth strategy for industrialization.
Anticipated imbalances became apparent in many areas, for example
between urban and regional development, between large-scale and
small-scale businesses, and between export and domestic
industries. To redress the urban bias, increasing income in rural areas
has become an important issue for the country. To this end, the
mechanization of farming has been recently promoted in order to
increase agricultural productivity. Opportunities for off-farm
income generation have also been expanded through the creation of
small-scale industrial estates in rural areas. Large-scale enterprises have reached the level at which they
can take care of themselves, and hence assistance in recent years
has been directed towards the promotion of small and medium-scale
enterprises. As a result, the latter are increasing both
production and exports. This effort will be continued. In order to balance export and domestic industries, a
programme of industrial structural adjustment has been devised to
effect a shift in the direction of technology-intensive
industries. Here technology development emerges as most
important. At their present level of development, Korean
industries should possess enough indigenous capability to
overcome the growing protectionism in technology and to increase
their bargaining power for its importation. At the present stage of development, the Korean economy can
only maintain its sustained growth through ambitious
internationalization. Internationalization is not only desirable for domestic
reasons, but is also in line with the growing interdependence of
the world economy. As a leading NIC, the Republic of Korea is now
expected to play an important role by both developed and
developing countries. The centre of the world economy is predicted to move to the
Pacific region in the foreseeable future. In this region, Japan
has excelled in its economic performance. For its own economic
prosperity and for the sake of neighbouring countries, Japan is
required to assume an appropriate role as economic leader. The Republic of Korea will take an active part in
internationalization, pursuing self-reliance in science and
technology only in accordance with principles of interdependence.
This interdependence will be realized in open competition and
complementary cooperation. In this way, the country will both
contribute to and benefit from the forthcoming Pacific Era. At the same time, NIC and developing countries in the region
should also be prepared to play a role. These countries have
great potential if they can coordinate their efforts. With its
relatively fresh experience of industrialization, the Republic of
Korea may be able to provide some important lessons for countries
with similar development goals. Cooperation with those countries
will yield mutual benefits. Japan is expected to be a valuable source of advanced
technology for the future of the Republic of Korea, and
technological cooperation will prove beneficial for both. Oddly
enough, without such cooperation, Japan will also find it
difficult to assume the future technological leadership of the
world. A standing regional organization will be useful not only for
the efficient exchange of technical information, but also for
technology implementation among countries in the region. Such an
organization could review policies for technology transfer.
Equally important is the establishment of a training centre in
science policy and research management. Productive cooperation
can be accomplished by the nurturing of mutual comprehension and
a common awareness. 