India is a land of festivals, where people from different religions coexist harmoniously. The wide variety of festivals celebrated in India is a true manifestation of its rich culture and traditions. There are many Indian festivals and celebrations, the most exciting of which are mentioned below. While the celebrations happen all over the year, October till January is the time when the country can be seen at its vibrant best. India is one country where every religion and community celebrates their culture. There are festivals of India state wise, religion-based, and community-wise. So, every day is a new celebration in this country. You also enjoy lots of Gazetted holidays that gives you an opportunity to plan a trip across the country. To give you a fair idea about all the festivals of India in 2021 and their dates, before you begin, here is a piece of information that would prove essential for you! It will also tell you about the importance of the famous festivals of India! Indian Festivals Calendar 2021 Here is a list of religious and national festivals of India that is celebrated in the country with much gusto and fervor. Plan your holidays around these festivals if you wish to explore the vibrant culture of India. Month Festival Date (2021) Day January Makar Sakranti 14th January Thursday January Pongal Begins on 17th January Sunday January Basant Panchami 16th February Tuesday February Maha Shivratri 11th March Thursday March Holi 29th March Monday March Mewar Begins from 27th March Friday April Baisakhi 14th April Wedneday April Bihu Begins on 13th April Tuesdsay May Thrissur Pooram 3rd May Sunday May Buddha Jayanti 7th May Thursday May Eid Ul Fitr 13th May Thursday June Ratha Yatra 23rd June Tuesday June Hemis 30th June Wednesday August Rakshabandhan 22nd August Sunday August Janmashtmi 12th August Wednesday August Independence Day 30th August Monday August Onam Begins on 23rd August Monday August Ganesh Chaturthi 10th September Friday October Navratri From 7th to 14th October Thursday October Durga Puja 15th October Friday October Dussehra 30th October Friday November Diwali 4th November Thursday November Gurupurab 19th November Friday December Christmas 25th December Saturday 36 Popular Festivals Of India in 2021 The greatness of India’s culture can be found in its festivals. The vivid and vivacious festivals of India depicts the greatness of our Indian culture. Indians celebrate festivals with sheer enthusiasm and devotion. India is a country that is appreciated and comprehended as a plethora of festivals are celebrated here. Here is a quick list of the most famous festivals of India state wise. The regional festivals of India too are celebrated with much pomp and show. Check out this list of religious festivals of India before you visit the best places of Indian cultural heritage to attend the grand celebrations of these festivals. Diwali: The Grand Festival Of Lights (4 November, Thursday) Holi: The Vibrant Festival Of Colours (29th March, Monday) Dussehra: Witness The Triumph Of Good Over Evil (15th October, Friday) 1. Diwali: The Grand Festival Of Lights (4 November, Thursday) Diwali, one of the most prominent Hindu festivals of India, is celebrated with a lot of pomp and show. During this festival of lights, houses are decorated with clay lamps, candles, and Ashok leaves. People wear new clothes, participate in family puja, burst crackers, and share sweets with friends, families, and neighbors. It is the most popular festival in India. Significance: The festival marks the return of Lord Rama, along with his wife Sita and brother Lakshmana, after a long exile of 14 years.Key attractions: Homes decorated with fancy lights, candles and clay lamps, bustling shops and markets, and fireworks and crackersWhen: The darkest new moon night of Kartik month of the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to mid-October – mid-November as per the Gregorian CalendarWhere: All over the countryDiwali 2021: 4th November (Thursday)Things To Do: Light diyas, decorate your home, share sweets and gifts with family and loved ones 2. Holi: The Vibrant Festival Of Colours (29th March, Monday) Also known as the festival of colors, holi is one of the famous festivals of India, celebrated with a lot of fervor across the country. On the eve of Holi, people make huge Holika bonfires and sing and dance around it. On the day of Holi, the famous festival of Indian states, people gather in open areas and apply dry and wet colors of multiple hues to each other, with some carrying water guns and colored water-filled balloons. It tops the charts of 10 famous festivals in India as it is celebrated all across the world with happiness. Significance: It signifies the victory of good (Prince Prahlad) over evil (Holika) and the arrival of spring.Key attractions: Holika bonfire, playing with colors, and bhang thandaiWhen: Full moon (Purnima) of the Phalgun month of the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to the month of March of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Almost all over the country; most vibrant celebrations can be seen in North Indian statesHoli 2021: 29th March (Monday)Things To Do: Holika bonfires and sing and dance around it, play with colors, eat sweets esp. Gujiya 3. Dussehra: Witness The Triumph Of Good Over Evil (15th October, Friday) Dussehra, also referred to as Vijayadashami, is also among the most famous festivals of India in Hindu religion. It is celebrated in different forms of countrywide. Ramlila (enactment of scenes from Ramayana) is held everywhere for 10 days. It’s culminated with “Ravan Dahan” – the burning of huge effigies of Ravana, Meghnath, and Kumbhkaran which is a real spectacle to see. While in Mysore, a colorful procession is taken out, in Kullu it is celebrated for 10 days welcoming their mountain deities in the valley. The Mysore Palace is lit like a bride and the atmosphere is filed with the music of drums. It is a spectacle to not miss on your trip to the city of royals. It is one of the most religious festivals of India. Significance: It celebrates the death of the demon king Ravana at the hands of Lord Rama.Key attractions: Hustle bustle of the decorated markets, Ram-Leela acts, and the big event of the burning of effigies of Ravana, Meghnath, and KumbhkaranWhen: 10th day of the month of Ashwin according to the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to September or October of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Pan IndiaDussehra 2021: 15th October (Friday)Things To Do: Visit Dussehra celebrations, attend ravan dahan, visit prominent temples to glance celebrations Navratri is one of the most important festivals of India. This festival is celebrated by all people throughout India in different ways. In Gujarat, it is a nine-day celebration of rejuvenating Garba nights and highly energetic Dandiya Raas dances. People are dressed in beautiful, colorful traditional clothes and the environment is very youthful and invigorating. Fasting is a famous tradition of Hindu religion and is associated with a scientific fact. Whenever there is a change in season, one should fast to give rest to their digestive system and boost their immunity for the next season. Significance: It represents the celebration of the Goddess Amba (Power) in nine different forms.Key attractions: The 9 days of dance festivities in Gujarat, the exquisite Chaniya Choli’s (traditional skirt & blouse), and the Gujarati cuisine – Sabudana Khichdi, Mandvi Paak, Singoda ki Kheer, and Potato WafersWhen: The first nine days of the month of Ashwin according to the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to September or October of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Almost all over the country; most vibrant in Gujarat, Maharashtra and the metrosNavratri 2021: From 7th October to 14th October (Thursday)Things To Do: 9-days fasting, visit temples and religious places, 8th and 9th day of Navratri are celebrated with Kanya Pujan, attend dandiya nights One of the important Hindu festivals of India, Durga Puja is celebrated with grandeur by Bengalis, throughout the country and is ranked as one of the top in the list of religious festivals of India. The 10 days of fast, feast, and worship of Goddess Durga are accompanied by cultural songs, dances, and dramas. Huge and beautiful Durga idols are made and placed in specially made artistic Pandals(canopies). People dress in traditional wear and go around the pandal-hopping, praying, and feasting. Significance: It commemorates Lord Rama’s invocation of Goddess Durga before going to war with the demon king Ravana.Key attractions: Plush pandals, incredibly beautiful ten armed Durga idols, and the pujaWhen: 10th day of Ashwina Shukla paksha according to the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to September or October of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Kolkata and the metros are the best places to be in India during Durga Puja celebrationsDurga Puja 2021: 15th October (Friday)Things To Do: Visit Durga Puja pandals to catch the true vibe of this celebration Janmashtami is again a beautiful one among the most important religious festivals of India. Janmashtami celebrations in Mathura and Vrindavan are very popular. People fast throughout the day and break it with a special meal after dusk which makes it one of the important in the list of festivals of India. Visiting temples, praying, dancing, and singing bhajans (hymns) at midnight is a part of the celebrations of the birth of Lord Krishna. Often, small children dress up like Lord Krishna on this day. Images and picturization of Krishna’s life story are depicted in the “jhankis” in temples. It is one of the popular festivals of India. Significance: It is the annual celebration of the birthday of Lord Krishna.Key attractions: The Janmashtami puja and festivities in the temples and the jhaankis of Lord KrishnaWhen: The 8th day (Ashtami) of the Krishna Paksha (dark fortnight) of the month of Bhadrapada according to the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to August or September of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Celebrated by the Hindu community all over, but the festivities at Mathura and Vrindavan are very popularJanmashtami 2021: 30th August (Monday)Things To Do: Visit Krishna temples and attend special puja that includes bhajans and jhankis Ganesh Chaturthi, another one of the important Hindu religious festivals of India , is a 10-day affair of colorful festivities. Huge handcrafted Ganesh idols are installed in homes or outdoors, in public pandals. Pujas are performed in the morning and the evening. The last day is the day of Visarjan – immersion of an idol in a water body. Cultural activities of singing, dancing, and theater, and free medical and blood donation camps are held. Significance: It’s the birthday of Lord Ganesha, the elephant-headed God.Key attractions: The beautifully crafted life size idols of Ganesha, and the immersion ceremonyWhen: The 4th day of the first fortnight (Shukla Chaturthi) in the month of Bhadrapada of the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to August or September of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Celebrated in the states of Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh with fervor and gaietyGanesh Chaturthi 2021: 10th September (Friday)Things To Do: Indulge in cultural activities, be a part of visarjan ceremony One of the most important Sikh festivals of India, special assemblies on the lives and teachings of the gurus, and langars (community meals) are organized in the gurudwaras. Karah Prasad is distributed among all, and hymn chanting processions are held in the city. People light up their homes with lamps and candles and burst crackers to celebrate Gurpurab. Significance: It is the celebration of the anniversary of the ten Sikh GurusKey attractions: The soulful Bhajan-Kirtan (hymns), Gurbani in the Gurdwaras, the Langar and the Karah PrasadWhen: The full moon day in the month of Kartik of the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which correspondsto November of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Celebrated by the Sikh community all over the world, especially in PunjabGurupurab 2021: 19th November (Friday)Things To Do: Visit gurudwara, indulge in sewa and langar, help needy, do charity One of the famous festivals in the list of festivals of India, Rakhi is celebrated among Hindu. Signifying the brother-sister bonding, during Rakhi, the sister performs Aarti (prayer), applies tilak, and ties rakhi (a sacred thread) on the brother’s wrist wishing his well being. The brother, in return, vows to protect the sister. Another festival which has a strong similarity to Rakhi is Bhai Dooj which comes just after Diwali. Significance: It symbolizes the strong bonding of a brother and sister.Key attractions: The ritual of Rakhi and the brightly decked up markets showcasing a colourful variety of rakhis and sweetsWhen: The full moon day of Shravana month of the Hindu lunisolar calendar, which corresponds to August of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Particularly in North, Central and West IndiaRaksha Bandhan 2021: 22nd August (Sunday)Things To Do: Celebrate the day with your siblings Eid is one of the major festivals of India for the Muslim community. People dress up in fineries, attend a special community prayer in the morning, visit friends, and relatives and exchange sweets. Children are given idi (money or gift) by elders. Significance: It celebrates the conclusion of the holy month of fasting called Ramadan.Key attractions: The beautifully decked up markets and mosques, the morning Eid namaz at the mosques, and the sweet dishes.When: On the 1st day of the month of Shawwal of the lunar Hijri calendar, which corresponds to July of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Celebrated by Muslims all over the countryEid Ul Fitr 2021: 13th May (Thursday)Things To Do: Attend a special community prayer in the morning, visit friends, and relatives and exchange sweets 11. Bihu: Dance, Music, And Laughter (Begins on 13th April, Tuesday) Popular among the festivals of India celebrated in the North East, Bihu is the harvest festival of Assam. During the month-long celebrations, young men and women wear their traditional clothes and perform the Bihu dance in the village fields and courtyards. During Bihu celebrations in India, a community feast is held with a lot of fanfare. Significance: It’s the traditional new year celebration of Assamese.Key attractions: The Bihu dance and the local cuisine – coconut ladoo, til pitha, ghila pitha, and fish pitikaWhen: 14th AprilWhere: Celebrated by the Assamese diaspora around the world, especially in AssamBihu 2021: Begins on 13th April (Tuesday)Things To Do: Wear traditional clothes and attend ceremonies, indulge in local rituals Hemis, the two-day religious festival from Ladakh, is one of the most important festivals of India. It attracts a lot of locals and foreign tourists each year. The festivities include the Cham dance done by the priests to the tune of the traditional music of cymbals, drums, trumpets played by the monks. It’s among the most unique types of festival where the dancing priests dress up in elaborate brocade outfits and masks. Significance: It’s the celebration of the birth anniversary of spiritual leader Padmasambhava, founder of Tibet Tantric Buddhism.Key attractions: The scenic Hemis monastery and the Cham danceWhen: 10th day (called Tse-Chu in the local language) of the Tibetan lunar month, which corresponds to June or July of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Ladakh, Jammu & KashmirHemis 2021: Begins on 30th June (Wednesday)Things To Do: Attend the ceremonies and processions by the priests Onam is among the important national festivals of India, wherein people wear traditional wear, adorn houses with Pookalam (floral designs), and prepare Onasadya (elaborate meal of about 13 dishes). Events such as Vallamkali (snake boat race), Kaikottikali (clap dance), Kathakali dance, and Pulikali procession (artists dressed and painted like tigers and hunters) are held. Significance: It celebrates the homecoming of the legendary king Mahabali.Key attractions: The spectacular Snake Boat Race, the enigmatic Kaikottikali dance, and the Elephant processionWhen: In the month of Chingam of the Malayalam calendar, which corresponds to August or September of the Gregorian calendarWhere: Celebrated by people of all communities in the state of Kerala.Onam 2021: Begins on 23rd August (Monday)Things To Do: Attend boat races, and other ceremonies The four-day long harvest festival of South India is one of the most famous festivals of India. People prepare Pongal dish and wear their traditional attire. On this famous festival of South India, celebrities include bonfires, dancing, cattle races, sweets, and savories. The houses look resplendent with Kolam designs (traditional floral designs made with rice, colored powders, and flower petals) Significance: It’s a festival of thanksgiving to nature representing the first harvest of the year.Key attractions: The variety of Kolam designs and cattle racesWhen: 15th JanuaryWhere: Celebrated by Tamils all over India, primarily in Tamil NaduPongal 2021: Begins on 17th January (Sunday)Things To Do: Bonfires, dancing, cattle races, sweets, and savories One of the most famous and awaited festivals in India and the world, Christmas happens to be of sheer significance for elders and children alike. Everyone regardless of their religion wait for this day, children specifically for the surprise gifts from Santa. All the churches are lit up and decorated to celebrate the birth of Lord Jesus. Significance: Birthday of Lord JesusKey attractions: Christmas tree decoration, prayers, birth of Lord Jesus and Santa ClausWhen: 25th DecemberWhere: The festival is celebrated across India. The best places to celebrate Christmas in India are Goa, Pondicherry and Kerala.Christmas 2021: 25th December (Saturday)Things To Do: Visit church and attend prayers, attend carnivals and celebrations Just like other festivals in India and the world, Easter is also celebrated with much fervour and great religious solemnization in different parts of the country. Celebrated during Spring, Easter celebrations in India are distinguished by various colourful decorations, dance and plays, simmel and plum cakes, and bright lanterns adorning the streets. Baisakhi, one of the famous festivals of India is celebrated by the Sikh community of Punjab and those around the world. It celebrates the welcoming of the harvest season for the rabi crops. The Sikhs celebrate this festival with a lot of excitement and enthusiasm by performing local folk dances such as Giddha and Bhangra. The festival is of great religious significance in India as it marks the day when the tenth Guru of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh, laid out the foundation stone for the Panth Khalsa-the Order back in 1699. Significance: Welcoming the harvest seasonKey attractions: Folk dance like Bhangra and Giddha, Punjabi feasts, decorations in houses and GurudwarasWhen: 14th April (Wednesday)Where: The festival is celebrated across Sikh communities in India. The best place to celebrate Baisakhi in India is PunjabBaisakhi 2021: 14th April Things To Do: Visit gurudwaras, enjoy scumptious food served at celebrations, be a part of local celebrations 18. Makar Sankranti: Hindu’s New Year (14th Jan, Thursday) Image SourceMakar Sankranti is the real new year of North Indians and Sikhs which is celebrated just one day after Lohri. On this day, worship to God is performed to seek his blessings for the new year. It is in a way the end of winter and the beginning of spring which means the agricultural cycle for farmers. The dates are set according to solar cycles, unlike other Hindu festivals where dates are decided by lunar cycles. People celebrate this day by flying kites and having savory ‘Bajre ki khichdi’ and sweet ’til ladoo’. Gujaratis celebrate this festival by the name of Uttarayan. Significance: Beginning of agricultural cycleKey attractions: Kite flyingWhen: 14th January (Thursday)Where: The festival is celebrated across North Indian and Sikh communities in India. The best place to celebrate Makar Sankranti in India is North regionMakar Sankranti 2021: 14th JanuaryThings To Do: Attend celebrations, visit temples and holy places 19. Maha Shivratri: Devotion To Lord Shiva (11th March, Thursday) Dedicated to Lord Shiva, this Indian festival holds great reverence among the devotees of Lord Shiva. It has a huge significance in Hindu mythology celebrated on the 14th day of the dark fortnight in the month of Phalgun. It is believed that whoever worships Lord Shiva on this day attains salvation and redemption from their sins. It is also among the most crucial festivals of India for unmarried and married women to attain marital bliss. Celebrated in the months of January or February, Basant Panchmi is dedicated to Goddess Saraswati and is one of the famous festivals of India. It is an important day for scholars and students when they worship the Goddess of Knowledge. It is widely celebrated in the states of Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Odisha, Punjab, and Haryana. People in Rajasthan offer jasmine garlands to the goddess and langars are held in the state of Punjab. Significance: It marks the beginning of springKey attractions: On this day, people wear yellow colored clothes and make yellow dishes like sweet saffron rice and kadhi.When: It is celebrated on the fifth day of Magha month of Hindu calendar.Where: states of Bihar West Bengal, Assam, Odisha, Punjab, and HaryanaBasant Panchami 2021: 16th February ( Tuesday) Things To Do: Attend Saraswati Puja and celebrations 21. Mahavir Jayanti: Birth Of Lord Mahavir (25th April, Sunday) Mahavir Janma Kalyanak is an important day for the people from Jain religion as it marks the birth of Lord Mahavir. If you have noticed, the statue of Lord Mahavir is given a Mahabhishek where it is bathed with milk and flowers. Even a grand procession of Lord Mahavira’s idol is carried out in the streets. Significance: It is the birth anniversary of Lord MahavirKey attractions: Prayers are offered and fasting is observed. Rath Yatra is also carried out.When: It is celebrated on the 13th day of Chaitra month of Hindu CalendarWhere: It is widely celebrated in the states of Gujarat and RajasthanMahavir Jayanti 2021: 25th April (Sunday) Things To Do: Attend grand processions, visit Jain temples 22. Ugadi: A Festival To Thank The Deity (13th April, Tuesday) Ugadi is a regional new year celebration for the people of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states. This auspicious harvest festival is observed by making rangolis on floor, decorations on doors called torana, buying and giving gifts and sharing special food. It is one of the famous festivals of India. Significance: IT is a harvest festival considered auspicious to start new workKey attractions: Famous Ugadi delicacies like Pulihora, Ugadi Pachadi and Bobbatlu, prepared with raw mango, neem, jaggery and tamarindWhen: On the first day of the Hindu lunisolar calendar month of ChaitraWhere: Andhra Pradesh and KarnatakaUgadi 2021: 13th April (Tuesday) Things To Do: Attend local celebrations The Chhath Puja is a 4 day long festival, dedicated to the worship of the sun god. The devotees pray to them thanking for the life, wealth and health of themselves as well as their family. Many also bathe in the holy Ganges river. Many devotees also fast during the puja, following the legend of the fast of Rama and Sita to honour the sun god. Significance: The festival is dedicated to the worship of the sun godKey attractions: Some devotees fast from food and water as a ritual of the pujaWhen: On the sixth day of the Hindu month of Kartika, which falls in October or November on the Gregorian CalendarWhere: BiharChhath Puja 2021: 10th November(Wednesday) Things To Do: Attend festivals, take bath in holy rivers, indulge in celebrations Also known as Annakut Puja, Govardhan Puja is celebrated as the day when Lord Krishna defeated the god of thunder and rain, Indra. In Maharashtra, the same day is celebrated as Bali Pratipada while in Gujarat this day coincides with Gujarati New Year’s day. Significance: Celebrated as the day when Lord Krishna defeated God IndraKey attractions: On this day, food made of cereals like wheat, rice and leafy vegetables are cooked and offered to Lord KrishnaWhen: Most of the times it falls next day after DiwaliWhere: All across IndiaGovardhan Puja 2021: 5th November (Friday) Things To Do: Go for Govardhan parikrama, visit temples and celebrations Gudi Padwa is a grand harvest festival mainly celebrated in the state of Maharashtra marking the beginning of an auspicious New Year. People make rangoli designs at the entrance of their homes and decorate it with flowers. Folks meet friends and relatives, and women cook sweets like Shrikhand, Puran Poli and Sunth Paak. Significance: On this festival, people pray to Lord VishnuKey attractions: Local people make Gudi (bamboo doll) using mango and neem leaves and hang them at the entranceWhen: 25th March (Date may vary)Where: MaharashtraGudi Padwa 2021: 13th April (Tuesday) Things To Do: Attend celebrations 26. Republic Day – Anniversary Of The Constitution Of India (26th January, Tuesday) Republic Day is one of those festivals in India where patriotism amidst the citizens is at its peak. For this was the day when the constitution of India came into existence and the transition of the country from a British Dominion to a republic took place. This happened in the year 1950, three years after India got independence. Every year, this day is celebrated with great pride and excitement. Significance: Celebrated as the day when the Constitution of India came into existence.Key attractions: On this day, a grand parade is held every year that commences from Rashtrapati Bhavan and continues to Rajpath, India Gate, and then finally Red Fort.When: 26th January (Tuesday)Where: All across India Things To Do: Attend Republic Day parade, indulge in celebrations Taking place in Pushkar every year, this is one of the most interesting festivals in India. When the sandy floors of Pushkar are covered with camels, it is truly a sight to behold. This is that one festival that one should witness when looking for some ancient and old traditional-style Indian celebrations. Initially, the festival was celebrated to attract the local camel and cattle traders to do business during the holy Kartik Purnima festival. Significance: Celebrated as the holy day for cattle and camel traders to do business.Key attractions: On this day, camel and cattle traders get together to do business on the holy Kartik Purnima festival.When: 13th January, WednesdayWhere: Pushkar, Rajasthan One of the most religious festivals of India, Kumbh Mela is celebrated in a cycle of 12 years, approximately at four banks of rivers that are considered holy – namely Prayag, Haridwar, Nashik, and Ujjain. The pilgrims in this festival dip in the holy waters to get rid of all their sins in life. Along with this, the celebrations also include exorbitant fair, religious discourses by gurus and saints, mass feedings of the poor, and more! Significance: Celebrated based on the astrological positions of the Sun, the Moon, and Jupiter.Key attractions: Millions and millions of pilgrims visit the Kumbh Mela and dip in the holy rivers.When: 14th January to 27th April 2021Where: Haridwar, Allahabad, Ujjain, and Nasik (On rotation)Kumbh Mela 2021: 14th January to 27th April 2021 Things To Do: Take bath in the holy river, attend ceremonies and pujas, attend lectures by spiritual gurus 29. Losar – The Tibetan New Year (14th February, Sunday) A famous Tibetan festival, Losar is one of the greatest Indian festivals and celebrations. Majorly celebrated in the neighbouring region, Tibet, Losar is a festival that is also celebrated in India by the Tibetans or the followers of Buddhism residing in this nation. Losar is the Tibetan New Year that is celebrated in a fun and frolic way. This also involves a way to show gratitude to God for the harvest. Significance: Celebrated as the day when the lunar pattern, according to the Tibetan calendar, begins.Key attractions: The celebrations are spread over three days, where different activities take place on each day.When: 14th February (Sunday)Where: Himachal Pradesh, Leh And Ladakh, Arunachal PradeshLosar 2021: 12th February to 14th February Things To Do: Indulge in local celebrations One of the grand festivals falling in the list of Indian festivals that is celebrated in Nagaland is none other than the Hornbill. This week long festival is celebrated to show respect to their culture and folklore. Also famed as the ‘Festival of Festivals’, Hornbill is all about celebrating the ancient tribal traditions, lifestyles, and heritage. Significance: Celebrated as the day to promote intercultural harmony between various tribes.Key attractions: On this day, there are various activities that take place throughout the week such as horse-riding, craft space, painting, flower show, herbal medicine sales, chilli eating challenge, performances, sports, games, and much more!When: 5th December (Sunday)Where: NagalandHornbill Festival 2021: NA Things To Do: Horse-riding, craft space, painting, flower show, herbal medicine sales, chilli eating challenge, performances This festival happens in the city of Rajasthan, Udaipur. The festival is celebrated to mark the arrival of the spring season. If you want to be a witness to the cultural and traditional aspects of Rajasthan at large, you shouldn’t forget to attend this festival. This festival has a vast history and has been celebrated since when the Sisodia Dynasty was ruling India. Significance: Celebrated to welcome the season of SpringKey attractions: the whole festival is quite colorful and women in Udaipur can be seen actively taking part in the various ceremoniesWhen: 29th March 2021Where: UdaipurMewar Festival 2021: 27th March to 29th March Things To Do: Attend celebrations This is one of the holiest festivals celebrated in the country of India. It is also known by the name Buddha Purnima. The festival is celebrated as the birthday of Gautama Buddha who introduced the philosophy of Buddhism in the world. In order to make the most of this day, people indulge themselves in attending Buddhist teachings and wear white clothes to follow the tradition. Significance: People celebrate this festival because on this day Gautama Buddha was bornKey attractions: on this day, people impart the teachings of Buddhism and everyone wears white clothesWhen: 26th May 2021 (Wednesday)Where: Darjeeling, Bodh Gaya, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Kurseong, Darjeeling, and MaharashtraBuddha Jayanti 2021: 26th May Things To Do: Visit Buddhist temples and monasteries, attend lectures and prayers Considered amongst the most famous amongst all the festivals celebrated in Kerala, Thrissur Pooram will be a great event to attend. People from around the country gather to celebrate this festival. The celebrations for Thrissur Pooram do not end before 36 hours. Fireworks as well as Parasol displays form a crucial part of this festival. This is a festival of chariots that is celebrated as an event dedicated to the Lord Jagannath. People assemble at the famous Puri Jagannath Temple in the Indian state of Odisha. The idols of Goddess Subhadra, Lord Jagannath, and Lord Balabhadra are placed on a chariot and taken out for the procession. Significance: It is celebrated to pay reverence to the Lord JagannathKey attractions: chariots with the idols of Lord Jagannath, Goddess Subhadra, and Lord Balabhadra are taken out on a chariotWhen: 12th July, Monday 2021Where: PuriJagannath Yatra 2021:12th JulyThings To Do: Attend Rath Yatra Celebrated in the picturesque Ziro Valley of Arunachal Pradesh, this festival is the biggest harvest festival that happens here. This festival is celebrated to gather people together and pray for a successful harvest. Moreover, people are served with cucumber, symbolizing the richness of the harvest. Significance: This is considered to be one of the major harvest festivals in IndiaKey attractions: people assemble and pray unanimously for the smooth harvestWhen: NAWhere: Ziro ValleyDree Festival 2021: NA Things To Do: Attend ceremonies 36. Independence Day – Celebration Of Freedom (15th August, Sunday) One of the most crucial and celebrated national festivals, Independence Day is celebrated to feel the spirit of India’s freedom. The flag hoisting ceremony is also held during this day, carried out by the Prime Minister of India at Red Fort. This event is then followed by 21 gunshots that are fired as a way to give salutation. The myriad of important festivals of India boasts of the nation’s rich and varied culture and the religious sentiments of the people. Hope this list of famous festivals of India sparked an urge to travel to different places and be a part of celebrations. If you want to know a little more about the Indian festive spirit, these commonly-asked questions will be helpful. And don’t hesitate to plan a trip to India ! The festival of lights, Diwali is celebrated to pay respect to Lord Rama, who returned to his kingdom after 14 years in exile, where he fought the cruel king, Ravana. Which are the famous festivals of North India? Lohri and Baisakhi in Punjab, Hemis Festival in Kashmir, and Bihu Festival in North East India are among the famous festivals of north India. They celebrate the harvest season with dance, music, and lip-smacking food. Other famous festivals of North India, like Teej, Janmashtami, and Kumbha Mela are religious festivals and nationwide celebrations loaded with traditions and customs of Hindus. Which are the famous festivals of South India? Onam and Pongal are the main harvest festivals in South India celebrated in August-September and January respectively. Offering prayers to Hindu deities and family feasts are the highlights of these festivals. Besides, Nehru Trophy Race in Kerala is a popular festival that sees a large audience flocking to see the competition. Another one of the famous festivals of South India is the Hampi Festival. These celebrations in India are held in Karnataka and exhibit the essence of culture and history through music, dance, drama, and art. Which are the different festivals related to farming celebrated in India? Onam, Makar Sankranti, Baisakhi, Lohri, Wangala, Nuakhai, and Ugadi are some famous harvest festivals in India. The celebrations include a community gala featuring prayers to God, family gatherings, new clothes, music, dance, and feasts. Which festival is celebrated in spring season? Holi is the major festival celebrated in the Spring Season in India. The festival is also given names like Festival of Colors and Festival of Love. It is celebrated with organic colors and water while a number of delicacies such as gujiya and dahi bhalle are prepared in different states of the country. How many festivals are celebrated in India? There are diverse religions in India and each of these religions has their own number of festivals. Every state in India has about 20 to 30 grand festivals that is celebrated at different times of the year. Ganesh Chaturthi, Independence Day, Holi, Deepavali, Navratri, Gudi Padwa, Eid, and Republic Day are some of the most important festivals of India. What are the national festivals of India? Republic Day, Independence Day, and Gandhi Jayanti are the three national festivals of India since they are all centred around Indian Independence and hold a connection to India’s Freedom Struggle from the British colonial rule. The Indian government makes grand preparations for these festivals each year on a massive scale and the country celebrates these in unison. Republic Day is celebrated each year on 26th January, while Independence Day is celebrated on 15th August and Gandhi Jayanti on 2nd October. What is the most important Hindu festival? Diwali, also called Deepavali or Vijayadashami is the most important Hindu festival in India. It is essentially the Hindu celebration of good over evil and marks the day when Lord Ram returned home with Goddess Sita and Hanuman after defeating Raavan and completing their 14-year exile. Why India is called the land of festivals? India is referred to as the land of festivals owing to its rich amalgamation of different cultures, ethnic backgrounds, languages, religious sentiments, diverse history, and different traditions in all the states. There are about 20-30 varied festivals celebrated in each state itself, and almost every week is marked by an important festival that the country celebrates in unison. Why do we celebrate Gurpurab? Gurpurab, or Guru Nanak Gurpurab, is an important festival celebrated by Sikhs to commemorate the birthdays of all of their ten gurus. It is an essential religious festival in the northern region of India, especially in Punjab, Delhi, and parts of Haryana. The birth anniversary of the first Sikh guru, Guru Nanak, is known and celebrated as ‘Guru Nanak Prakash Utsav’ and it is believed to be one of the most sacred festivals for Sikhs. Gurpurab will be celebrated on 12th November this year. Why is Nagaland called the land of festivals? Nagaland is often referred to as the land of festivals since it is a place where one festival follows another throughout the year. No matter which time of the year you travel to Nagaland, you will always be able to witness one or more ongoing festivals in Nagaland, and the experience will be awesome since festivals in Nagaland are typically accompanied by fol music, dance, laughter, and lots of good local food. In Nagaland, even the name of the festivals are symbolic and they hold a strong significance in the culture and folklore of various tribal communities living in the state. A pastry-chef turned writer, Srishti has a knack for traveling to various corners of the country and penning them down in the most justifiable manner possible. When she’s not writing you can find her petting mountain dogs and not eating cottage cheese! 