A look at some of India’s most interesting cultural festivals Priya Srivastava, TIMESOFINDIA.COM
Created : Jan 19, 2021, 09:00 IST Credit: iStock 01 A look at some of India’s most interesting cultural festivals India is a melting pot of cultures. Given its cultural diversity, the country celebrates numerous festivals that are a spectacle of colours. These festivals are one of the best and most interesting ways to understand and explore the best of Indian culture. Here are some of the most prominent cultural festivals in India that one must experience once in a lifetime. Check them out here: Credit: iStock 02 Rann Utsav/Kutch Mahotsav, Gujarat Gujarat has rich culture and tradition which is reflected in its various colourful festivals. Rann Utsav, also known as the Kutch Mahotsav, is a quarter year long winter celebration that takes place in the sandy deserts of Kutch. Makeshift tents are set up for tourists and visitors with lots of government facilitates. Kite flying, camel ride and desert safari are some of the major attractions here. Credit: iStock 03 Losar Festival, Ladakh This one is Indo-Tibetans’ biggest event that marks the beginning of the Tibetan New Year. The colourful three-day long Losar festival is a major tourist draw in the region and locals come out of the houses on the street to pray, dance, sing and enjoy. This is the time when houses are painted, monasteries are decorated, and families exchange gifts and prepare delicious food. Credit: iStock 04 Hornbill Festival, Nagaland The Hornbill Festival is one of the most prominent yearly celebrations in the northeast India organised by Nagaland state government. Held every year in December, this weeklong festival celebrates the culture of Naga tribes. Travellers gather here from different corners of the world to be a part of the colourful festivities. From folk dance and musical performances to food competitions to sports events, the festivities here are simply the best! Credit: iStock 05 Pushkar Fair, Rajasthan Another prominent festival celebrated in Rajasthan is the Pushkar Fair. The fair is globally famous for hosting the largest annual camel fair. The weeklong grand and colourful festival attracts people from all over the world. This is the best place for those who wish to indulge in cattle trade such as horses, camels, cows and goats to name a few. It is an experience of a lifetime to write the least! Credit: iStock 06 Khajuraho Dance Festival, Madhya Pradesh Khajuraho, besides being famous for its erotic sculptures and ancient temples, is also globally recognised for its annual dance festival. In this cultural dance festival, several renowned dance troupes and eminent classical dancers from various parts of the country perform. The stage here offers the biggest platform to all classical dance forms. Credit: iStock 07 Jaisalmer Desert Festival, Rajasthan Jaisalmer, the golden city of Rajasthan, is renowned for its sand dunes, magnificent forts and its annual desert festival. This unique festival is the best way to experience the rich and vibrant folk culture of Rajasthan. The desert festival is celebrated every year in the month of February wherein singers, puppeteers, acrobats, dancers and more traditional artists from all over the state gather and showcase their talents. Join Us On FacebookClose Poll of the day Which Indian state hosts the annual ZIRO Festival of Music? Comments (0) Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil. Comments () Sort: SIGN IN WITH ORPOSTWITHOUTREGISTRATION Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil. Be the first one to review. We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message Congratulations! You have been successfully added to the mailing list of Times of India Travel. To complete the subscription process, kindly open your inbox and click on the confirmation link which has been emailed to you. close Share with friends Thank You for sharing!Your friend will receive the article link on email mentioned. (For more than one recipient, type addresses separated by commas) A look at some of India’s most interesting cultural festivals India is a melting pot of cultures. Given its cultural diversity, the country celebrates numerous festivals that are a spectacle of colours. These festivals are one of the best and most interesting wa... 