From a food fight that has evolved into an annual festival to lantern festivals that will take your breath away, these festivals and celebrations around the world are incredible to witness in person. Bastille Day, France: This holiday commemorates the Storming of the Bastille in 1789. There is a large military parade along the Champs Elysees (the biggest in Europe!), parties, and fireworks. Oktoberfest, Germany: During the last weeks of September and first of October, Munich is host to the biggest beer festivals in the world. If you like beer and brats, Oktoberfest is for you. Chinese New Year, China: This celebration marks the turn of the Chinese calendar and takes place in January or February. Throughout the country you’ll find dragons, fireworks, lanterns, flowers, and people in traditional dress. Patrick’s Day, Ireland: Though St. Patrick’s Day is celebrated around the world, Ireland does it best—it was the originator of it after all! The holiday pays tribute to St. Patrick and the arrival of Christianity in Ireland with parades and festivals. Dia de los Muertos, Mexico: On the day after Halloween, there’s a big “Day of the Dead” celebration in Mexico celebrating those who have passed away with costumes and a feast. Yi Peng Lantern Festival, Thailand: The Yi Peng Lantern Festival is Chiang Mai’s celebration of the Festival of Lights. The people of the city pay homage to Buddha by releasing thousands of lanterns into the sky, truly a sight to behold. Dev Deepawali, Varanasi, India: This Hindu festival takes place 15 days after Diwali on the banks of the Ganges. The rituals include taking a holy bath in the river and offering oil lamps both on and by the river. Kwanzaa, United States: African-Americans honor their African heritage during Kwanzaa, a 7-day holiday from December 26-January 1. Observers celebrate by decorating their homes with African cloth and art. La Tomatina, Bunol, Spain: Spurred from locals throwing produce at each other due to a parade mishap in 1945, La Tomatina has become an annual event. If you attend, be prepared to be covered in tomatoes! Holi, India: This Hindu celebration, also known as the festival of colors, marks the beginning of spring. People spray colors on each other and celebrate with friends and family. Diwali, India: One of the largest festivals in India, Diwali is the Hindu festival of lights where families gather together with gifts and feasts. Crop Over, Barbados: What started as a traditional harvest festival has blossomed into Barbados’ largest national festival. Crop Over takes place from June until the first Monday in August and features calypso music, food tents, street parties, and craft markets. The festival ends with The Grand Kadooment, a party with fireworks and more. Up Helly Aa Fire Festival, Scotland: Scots in the Shetland area of Scotland mark the end of the yule season with—as the name suggests—fire! Participants carry torches and set a replica of a Viking ship on fire. Burning Man, Nevada, USA: For people wanting to check out of society for a week, Burning Man is the place to be. Thousands gather in the desert to experiment with art and self-expression—and set a giant effigy ablaze. Hinamatsuri, Japan: During Hinamatsuri, or “Doll Festival” in English, girls display their dolls in their homes or on a platform covered in red carpet. This tradition goes back to the 1st century when people believed dolls could be host to bad spirits and would float them down the river, taking with them the bad spirits. Boryeong Mud Festival, South Korea: This festival began to promote a line of cosmetics that used mud from the Boryeong mud flats and has grown to attract over 2 million visitors. Events range from mud slides, mud skiing, colored mud for body painting, and more. White Nights Festival, St. Petersburg, Russia: Celebrating the season of the midnight sun, the White Nights Festival features ballet, opera, and music events. It culminates with the Scarlet Sails, when a ship with red sails cruises the water with a firework show blazing in the background. San Fermin Festival, Pamplona, Spain: You probably know this festival better as the running of the bulls. From July 7-14, you and 1 million of your closest friends can participate in this annual event. If you’re not up to running for your life, there are other events, like the Giants and Big-Heads Parade! Carnival of Venice, Venice, Italy: Dating back to the 11th century, Carnival starts a couple weeks before Ash Wednesday and culminates the day before Ash Wednesday. People flood the streets of Venice donning masks and festive outfits. Pingxi Lantern Festival, Taiwan: The Lantern Festival in Pingxi is one of the largest in the world with thousands of lanterns illuminating the night sky. Battle of the Oranges, Ivrea, Italy: This festival is the largest food fight in Italy. People are divided into nine teams and throw oranges at each other to remember the city’s defiance against a tyrant. Çocuk Bayrami, Turkey: This holiday is also known as Children’s Day. Beginning in 1920 to focus on Turkey’s future, it celebrates children throughout the country. Esala Perahera, Kandy, Sri Lanka: As a way to pay homage to the Sacred Tooth Relic of Buddha, the people of Kandy host a festival called Esala Perahera. There is a procession that features cultural dances and people and elephants adorned in lavish costumes. Eid al-Fitr: This 3-day holiday marks the end of Ramadan. During Eid al-Fitr, people give to charity and celebrate with family and friends. Pflasterspektakel, Linz, Austria: Pflasterspektakel is a massive street festival in Austria. Lasting three days in July, jugglers, acrobats, mimes, dancers, and other artists perform in the streets of the city. Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade, New York City, USA: Thanksgiving is celebrated throughout the United States, but for many the holiday kicks off with the Macy’s Thanksgiving Parade. Huge balloons make their way down the streets of New York, starting in Central Park West and ending at Herald Square. May Day, England: Dating back to ancient time, May Day is celebrated on the first day of May. The maypole is the center of the festivities and children dance around it. Obon, Japan: This Buddhist event is for people to pay tribute to their ancestors. People hang lanterns in front of their homes to guide the spirits of their ancestors and perform Obon dances. At the end of Obon the lanterns are placed onto bodies of water to guide the spirits away. St. Lucia, Sweden: On one of the longest and darkest nights of the year, December 13, Swedes celebrate the patron saint of light, St. Lucia. To celebrate, the children dress in white robes and serve Lussekatter and coffee to their parents. Inti Raymi, Peru: This reenactment of a 500-year-old Incan tradition takes place in Cuzco. The original ritual involved a large llama sacrifice, but luckily for the llamas, the participants just act out the ceremony with no actual bloodshed. In addition to the procession and faux sacrifice, there are folk dances and traditional Peruvian bands. Purim: Purim is a Jewish holiday that celebrates the saving of the Jewish people from Haman. Festivities include exchanging gifts, eating a celebratory meal, listening to a reading of the Book of Esther, and dressing up in costume. Masskara Festival, Bacolod, Philippines: During a gloomy time in the city’s history, the local government decided a festival would bring excitement and positive energy. Since then, the Masskara Festival takes place in October and features a dance competition, a beauty pageant, food festivals, concerts, and more. PANAFEST, Ghana: Created in 1992, PANAFEST takes place every two years to celebrate African culture. Though Ghana hosts the event, the focus is on the entire continent and features performances in drama, music, and poetry. Harbin Ice Festival, Harbin, China: The largest festival of its kind in the world, the Harbin Ice Festival features massive ice sculptures that are illuminated at night. Mardi Gras, New Orleans, USA: If one city knows how to celebrate Mardi Gras, it’s New Orleans. Patrons fill the French Quarter for the parades and festivities. Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta, Albuquerque, New Mexico: This hot air balloon festival is the largest of its kind in the world. During the nine day event, there are over 500 balloons present! Carnaval, Brazil: Carnaval the Brazil version of Mardi Gras – so you know it’s going to be a party! The costumes are over the top, the parades are amazing, and the music will get your feet moving. Junkanoo, Bahamas: Junkanoo is a street parade in the Bahamas that takes place on December 26 throughout the islands. The parades include dancing, drums, costumes, and music. Songkran Water Festival, Chiang Mai, Thailand: If you’ve ever dreamed of a full-fledged water gun fight, head to Chiang Mai in April. During the Songkran water festival participants celebrate the New Year by soaking each other with water. Falles, Valencia, Spain: This traditional celebration commemorates Saint Joseph with five days of parades, street parties, and fireworks. Koningsdag, The Netherlands: This national holiday in The Netherlands honors King Willem-Alexander. People wear orange and some even dye their hair for the parades and festivities. Pushkar Camel Fair, Pushkar, India: What began as a camel and livestock fair has now blossomed into an event that attracts thousands of tourists. Besides the buying and selling of animals, there are also stalls with jewelry and textiles, a camel race, and a longest mustache competition. Boxing Day, United Kingdom: Celebrated the day after Christmas, Boxing Day is similar to the US’s Black Friday. Shops open early and have sales. Football and Rugby teams also play their rivals on Boxing Day in the United Kingdom. Waitangi Day, New Zealand: This holiday celebrates New Zealand’s founding document, the Treaty of Waitangi. There is a three-day festival that features traditional Māori customs music, dance, and food. Semana Santa, Spain: Semana Santa, or Holy Week, is celebrated by Catholic brotherhoods and fraternities in Spain with processions throughout the country. The processions feature floats that depict the Passion of the Christ. The event differs between regions of Spain, but it is overall a pious religious event. 