Top 10 Traditional Chinese Festivals Domestic China trips are allowed in China (except for areas with medium or high risk). For more latest travel information such as where you can travel and what you will need, please see: These traditional festivals will really introduce you to life in China. There are annual events like Chinese New Year, the Lantern Festival, the Qingming (Tomb Sweeping) Festival, Double Seven Festival, and the Winter Solstice. The festivals introduced here have been selected for their traditional Chinese nature. Often the dates will vary from year to year because they are celebrated according to the Chinese calendar. See below for this year's dates. You may need to inquire for dates in the following year. Traditional Festivals and Events List Chinese New Year (within 15 days of January 25) is also called Spring Festival. It is the most important festival to Chinese people. Many activities are held to celebrate the festival, such as dragon dances, setting off firecrackers, making dumplings, etc. The Lantern Festival is traditionally the last day of the Chinese New Year period. It became a festival about 2,000 years ago. Billions of lanterns and giant lantern and drone displays makes the time festive. Qingming Festival (around April 4) is Chinese people's day for visiting graves and burial grounds to pray their respects to their ancestors. It's known as Tomb Sweeping Festival in English. Many Chinese also go for a picnic during Qingming Festival to enjoy the picturesque scenery of spring. The most popular and representative activity of Dragon Boat Festival is dragon boat racing. Dragon Boat Festival falls on month 5 day 5 of the Chinese lunar calendar (around mid-June). During this traditional festival in China, people customarily eat rice dumplings. Double Seventh Day falls on the 7th day of the 7th month of China's lunar calendar (around mid-August); that's why it is called Double Seventh Day. Known as China's Valentine's Day, it is a festival that has legendary links with romance and love in China. The 24 solar terms were first named by farmers in ancient China to help to guide agricultural affairs and farming activities. It is a system that marks the changes in seasons, weather, and nature by splitting a year into 24 equal periods of time. Some Chinese celebrate the Winter Solstice on December 21st, 22nd or 23rd depending on the day it falls. It is a custom for people to eat dumplings and/or tangyuan with their family on the day of the Winter Solstice. The Double Ninth Festival is also named Chongyang Festival. It is held on the 9th day of the 9th month of the Chinese lunar calendar (around mid-October). During the festival, enjoying chrysanthemums and climbing mountains are both popular activities in China. In China, special customs for memorizing the dead are held on Qingming Festival and Hungry Ghost Festival. Hungry Ghost Festival is the most important festival in month seven of the lunar calendar for Chinese people. The date, lunar month 7 day 15, is around late August. Related Articles We are here to help you... start planning your tailor-made China tour with 1-1 help from our travel advisors.
Create Your Trip China Highlights tailor-makes China tours to help travelers discover China
their way. We're a passionate team of one hundred avid travelers who love to share our knowledge
of China with those looking for a more authentic travel experience, more
... 