12 cultural festivals around the world bringing migrants together Helen Geraghty, Copywriter 08 August 2019 Helen Geraghty, Copywriter 08 August 2019 Cultural festivals offer the opportunity to enjoy some home comforts in a foreign country while meeting others from the diaspora. They can also be a great chance to learn more about the heritage and cultures of different countries and ethnicities around the world. No matter where you live or are travelling to, you can always find a variety of festivals celebrating vibrant cultures and people. We have prepared a selection of 12 cultural festivals around the world that promise to be a whole lot of fun. So why not add one to your festival calendar? USA 1. Nigeria Cultural Parade and Festival Now in its 3rd year, The Nigerian Cultural Parade and Festival is an energetic celebration of Nigerian Independence, promoting the cultural, social and economic welfare of Nigerians. Houston is home to the largest Nigerian community outside of Nigeria. And this festival welcomes visitors from all different ethnicities to experience and celebrate Nigeria’s rich culture. During one jam-packed, colourful day, Nigerian culture is honoured with a flamboyant parade, food, dancing, and music. 2. El Festival Colombiano This lively music festival is a colourful, hip-swinging celebration of Colombian independence and culture. The festival has been going for 13 years and offers three music stages. Experience traditional Colombian music at the tropical stage, including salsa, merengue, bachata and cumbia, or immerse yourself in the hedonistic pleasures of the dance music or reggeaton stages. Mouth-watering Colombian food and an upbeat party atmosphere make El Festival Colombiano a celebration that can be enjoyed by revellers from all ethnicities and walks of life. 3. Odunde June / 23rd and South Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.Free entry Founded in 1975, the Odunde Festival is America’s largest African American street festival and attracts around half a million people each year. The huge celebration covers 15 blocks, features 2 live stages of entertainment and over 100 vendor stalls packed with a dazzling array of colourful products and enticing food from African nations, the Caribbean, and Brazil. African culture, history and traditions are celebrated through music, entertainment, art and cultural events, stalls, food, and performances throughout the day. This summer festival is a glittering and energised celebration of the sights, sounds, and soul of African culture. 4. Adobo Festival August / California (location changes annually).Free entry Adobo Festival, named after a delicious traditional Philippine dish, celebrates Filipino culture, food, and music in California. The festival, now in its 14th year, features a jam-packed day of non-stop live music and entertainment, including guest appearances from Filipino celebrities. Enjoy your favourite tastes of the Philippines from the numerous food vendors at the festival dishing up authentic Filipino favourites. As well as food and music, there are plenty of stalls to browse and fun activities to get involved in throughout the day. Canada 5. Carnaval Del Sol Vancouver’s Carnaval Del Sol promises two days full of live music, art, dance, sports, workshops, and food celebrating Latin American Culture. The summer festival, which is the largest of its kind in the Pacific Northwest, hosts over 450 musicians and performers across six stages. You will also find your taste buds tempted at every turn with over 35 food vendors serving up exquisite Latin American dishes and delicacies. The carnival itself lasts two days in the run-up to the Latin American Week - with an exciting array of events including an art exhibition, the Fiesta Blanca Cruise, and a Latin Film Night. 6. Taste of Manila August / Bathurst Street, North York, Toronto, Ontario.Free entry Taste of Manila is an enormous Filipino food festival located in North York, an area of Toronto dubbed “Little Manila” because of its high population of Filipinos. Since the first one in 2014, Taste of Manila has gone on to become the largest Filipino street festival outside of the Philippines, now attracting over 350,000 visitors each year. Primarily a food festival, the sights and smells as you stroll around the festival are a real treat for the senses. Just some of the delicious, traditional Filipino dishes you can sample include adobo, halo halo, sinigang, tapsilog and lumpia. Once you’ve had your fill, there’s plenty more to see and do. Get ready to be entertained by live music, a street parade, dancing, activities for the kids, and over 75 street vendors. 7. Afrofest July / Woodbine Park, Toronto, Ontario.Free entry Afrofest is a family-friendly celebration of African culture and music, held annually in Toronto, one of the most culturally diverse cities in the world. Established in 1990, the festival now attracts around 120,000 visitors each year, and has become the largest free African music festival in Northern America. This vivid African extravaganza is divided into five areas – the main stage, youth stage, drum stage, children’s village and marketplace. With over 35 live acts throughout the weekend, around 75 vendors selling products sourced from Africa, kid’s games and activities, and delectable African cuisine to tickle your taste buds, Afrofest is a fun-filled day out. United Kingdom 8. Africa Oyé June / Sefton Park, Liverpool.Free entry Every year the Africa Oyé festival welcomes a diverse audience of over 75,000 people to come together and celebrate African and Caribbean music and culture. This summer festival is the largest free celebration of African and Caribbean culture in the UK and promotes community and multiculturism. Africa Oyé hosts a truly eclectic line-up of African and Caribbean musical talent. From traditional music to international artists, DJ sessions, and up-and-coming UK musicians, there’s something for the whole family. 9. Barrio Fiesta SA London London’s Barrio Fiesta has grown enormously since it’s modest beginnings in 1985. The event is now Europe’s largest gathering of Filipinos and attracts over 25,000 visitors each year. This summer festival is a two-day weekend event that brings alive the spirit of the Filipino fiesta and celebrates Filipino pride, culture, food and entertainment. The family-friendly fiesta includes kids’ activities, Filipino games, Filipino stars and celebrities, and live cultural music and performances. Live music includes both local acts and stars flown over from the Philippines. Visitors can also enjoy the tastes and aromas of authentic Filipino food. 12. African Music and Cultural Festival The one-day event is a family-friendly celebration of African culture, diversity, and harmony. It welcomes visitors of all ethnicities to celebrate, have fun, and learn more about African heritage and African Australian communities. The festivities begin with an opening parade, which is followed by a program of non-stop entertainment throughout the day. Visitors will be transported to Africa by traditional music and dancing, arts, cultural performance and theatre, authentic African food, fashion shows, and drumming. Share this story by Helen Geraghty, Copywriter
Since Helen began her career in digital marketing in 2012, she has been crafting unique, persuasive and informative content for businesses spanning almost every industry imaginable. Having spent time working both in-house and for digital marketing agencies, she took the plunge and went freelance during her maternity leave in 2017 and hasn’t looked back since. Helen can turn her hand to any topic, but specialises in writing digital marketing advice for small and medium-sized businesses.
More 