Abstract and Figures Cultural festivals and events are increasingly becoming arenas of discourse enabling people to express their views on wider cultural, social and political issues. Often the debates polarise into those advocating change and those wishing to preserve "traditional" or "local" culture in the face of modernisation and globalisation. This article analyses the discourse on cultural festivals from the perspective of stakeholders involved in traditional and popular culture events in Catalunya. There is generally a high level of agreement about the aims of cultural events and the cultural content that is appropriate for them. In particular, the importance of cultural events in underpinning Catalan identity is seen as being important. However, stakeholders tend to differ more in the meanings attached to concepts such as identity, with policy makers exhibiting a greater emphasis on economic and political issues, whereas cultural producers are more concerned with social aspects of identity. However, the general consensus on the social role of cultural events between the different stakeholders may be one explanation for the relatively vibrant festival culture in Catalunya. ... In the last twenty years there has been a small but steady stream of studies that use notions of social capital as a theoretical line of enquiry to understand social interaction in festival settings (Rao, 2001;Arcodia and Whitford 2006;Crespi-Vallbona and Richards, 2007;Finkel 2010;Quinn and Wilks 2013;Wilks and Quinn, 2016). As Quinn and Wilks (2013:2) put it, festival researchers are drawing on ideas from different social capital theorists and the focus is widening to incorporate the formation and development of social capital within and across an increasing breadth of festival actors or stakeholder groups. ... ... Crespi-Vallbona and Richards (2007) argue that festivals can both increase the 'bonding' within a community and enhance its bridging social capital by reaching individuals beyond the immediate community. MacKellar (2006) considering who actual accrues social capital in practice and what sort of social capital is developed by different parts of a diverse community. ... ... Through this process, the festivals produced links between individuals and groups, which in the past did not had any form of synergy. This facilitates the development of different types of social capital (Arcodia and Whitford, 2006;Schulendorf et al., 2011;Misener, 2013 amongst people within a community and, in parallel, provide a space to enhance its 'bridging social capital' by reaching individuals beyond the immediate community (see: Crespi-Vallbona and Richards, 2007). In the first case, the festivals offer opportunities that strengthen existing social ties. ... Suburbs have long been associated with assumptions and imposed meanings that do not fit the everyday reality of city life. Very little research has looked at the ways in which suburbs are experienced, represented and imagined as ‘real’ places. This represents the core focus of this thesis. I am concerned with the extent to which the cultural consumption of the city has come to shape suburban residents’ relationship with the city. This question is addressed through the lens of suburban festivals. My aim is to reassess the role of suburban communities in shaping the cultural life of the city. In this light, this research seeks to (1) to assess the role of the suburbs as more central in defining the practice of everyday life than might be assumed, (2) show why culture matters for places where people live and co-exist day to day; and (3) to bring suburbs, in all of their cultural complexity, to the fore in discussions around improved connections to place and more so-called ‘sustainable’ urban futures and ways of life. The research draws on fieldwork carried out in suburban communities in Manchester, focusing on three suburban festivals as case studies. It is based on data collected through cultural mapping workshops and semi-structured interviews with festival organisers, festival participants and policymakers. The findings suggest that suburbia is a multi-dimensional concept. As such, the spatial experience of suburban place and the micro-geographies of the ‘intimate’ play a constitutive role in forming and shaping place identity. Accordingly, the thesis provides a more nuanced approach to the process of place-making in the suburbs. In doing so, it challenges the orthodoxy of a culturally inert suburbia on the fringes of the city, arguing that the suburbs provide a powerful conduit through which the contemporary urban condition can be better understood. ... Herranen and Karttunen (2016), for instance, observe that festivals may be seen as platforms that enable the employment, networking, internationalization and training of artists, while Richards et al. (2015) link a variety of social functions to festivals as they foster a wide range of social impacts on the festival localities (see e.g. Arcodia & Whitford, 2006;Crespi-Vallbona & Richards, 2007;Van Winkle & Woosnam, 2014). Klaic (2014, p. 39), in turn, argues that festivals serve a developmental role in the arts, nurturing artistic innovation, young talent as well as audience development (see also Quinn, 2010). ... Festivals have become prominent in cultural life. Aiming to deepen the understanding of the impacts of arts and cultural festivals and their delivery on public cultural policies, this study examines festivals that were partly funded by the Finnish Ministry of Education and Culture (MinEdC) in 2018. The key questions were: How do the festivals themselves see their social, cultural and economic impacts/outcomes? How do the self-evaluated impacts/outcomes relate to the targets of (Finnish) cultural policy? We argue that exploring the societal impact resulting from the social, cultural and economic long-term impacts of festival productions with a multidisciplinary approach is a valuable method for generating comprehensive understanding on the overall value of arts festivals. We have devised a framework for exploring festival production networks that assists us to perceive how the social, cultural, economic and long-term societal impacts might be evaluated in the festival context. Undeniably, further multidisciplinary research is needed. ... Inspired by a picture of an urban dinner that took place during the Fiestas de Gràcia in Barcelona (Sanclemente 1990;Sobrequé 1996;Lafarga, 1999;Mercado 2004;Crespi-Vallbona & Richards 2007;Richards 2010) ASNI initiated the Spring Dinner in 2014. In terms of cultural geography, the organisation of the dinner examined whether it was possible to transfer a rooted cultural practice from another southern European city to Thessaloniki in an organic fashion. ... This chapter examines the long-standing neighbourhood initiative in Thessaloniki, the Alexandrou Svolou Neigbourhood Initiative, a bottom-up and self-organised activist group that was founded in 2013, attempting to provide the physical and immaterial space for communicating, sharing, and eventually commoning. ... Inspired by a picture of an urban dinner that took place during the Fiestas de Gràcia in Barcelona (Sanclemente 1990;Sobrequé 1996;Lafarga, 1999;Mercado 2004;Crespi-Vallbona & Richards 2007;Richards 2010) ASNI initiated the Spring Dinner in 2014. In terms of cultural geography, the organisation of the dinner examined whether it was possible to transfer a rooted cultural practice from another southern European city to Thessaloniki in an organic fashion. ... Cultural heritage was invented in the realm of nation-states, and from an early point it was considered a public good, stewarded to narrate the historic deeds of the ancestors, on behalf of their descendants. Nowadays, as the neoliberal rhetoric would have it, it is for the benefit of these tax-paying citizens that privatisation logic thrives in the heritage sector, to cover their needs in the name of social responsibility and other truncated views of the welfare state. We are now at a critical stage, where this double enclosure of the past endangers monuments, thins out their social significance and manipulates their values in favour of economistic horizons.
This volume examines whether we can place cultural heritage at the other end of the spectrum, as a common good and potentially as a commons. It does so in an exploratory and interdisciplinary way, by gathering argument from neighbouring fields of public resources with a longer history on the commons’ front and by looking at Greece as a case study, lately a battlefield of harsh and experimental austerity measures but also of inspiring grassroots mobilisation and scholarship.
In this setting, heritage commons emerge porous and versatile, holding a prefigurative promise; to defend cultural goods from the omnipresent market establishment, to enable the proliferation of participant com¬munities and to precipitate a paradigm swift towards more political, democratic and cultural-centric patterns of heritage governance. ... In order to do so, it is increasingly important to understand how stakeholders, such as the government, organizers, tourists, and residents experience the festivals and think about the present state and future direction-especially tourism development utilizing heritage resources (Crespi-Vallbona and Richards, 2007). Among the stakeholders, in the context of intangible cultural heritage, residents who perceive themselves as the guardians and key participants of the festivals are the most important (Bae and Park, 2018). ... Purpose
The present study aims to investigate resident attendees' perceptions and attitudes towards a traditional cultural festival. It further clusters the attendees and identifies the profiles of each cluster based on its demographic, attitudinal and behavioral variables.
Design/methodology/approach
The Drunken Dragon Festival, a traditional cultural festival in Macao SAR, which has been embedded in the local community for about a century, is used as a case. Data collected from 378 residents on the day of the festival were factor analyzed and then grouped by using cluster analysis.
Findings
A two-cluster solution revealed that the two groups, overall, had distinct demographic characteristics and had somewhat different perceptions and attitudes towards the festival.
Practical implications
The results not only show the overall perceptions of the Drunken Dragon Festival among the resident attendees, but they also imply that the government and the organizers need to communicate with and involve the two resident attendee clusters differently.
Originality/value
This study is one of the first attempts to investigate the residents' attitudes towards the transformational development of a traditional cultural festival as an effort to ensure the viability of intangible cultural heritage and to utilize it as a tourism resource. The image of a horse appears in many spheres of the British culture and in each case it has a special symbolic meaning. It is important to notice that the symbolic meaning is more essential in the British mentality than the material one.
Festivals can be one of the spheres where we can observe the versatility and historical meaning of the horse image. On the one hand, horses as real animals play a significant role in various events: horse competitions, horse shows, parades, royal ceremonies, etc. On the other hand, there is also personification of fancy images of horses at British festivals. Different types of horse figures (hobby horses) take part at certain events. Each of them has its own history and is strongly connected to the location. Waiheke Island is the third most populated island in Aotearoa New Zealand. Situated in the Hauraki Gulf and its Marine Park, near the most populated city, Auckland, the island has been a food basket pre colonisation, a forest to plunder, a holiday and retirement community, and a bohemian retreat increasingly attractive to the moneyed class that has contributed to a higher cost of living. The island’s vineyards and art studios, pleasant micro-climate and many beaches attract weekend visitors and increasingly unsustainable numbers of cruise ship day-trippers throughout the year. Along with its expanding tourism, wine industry and rural gentrification, the island is also known for its growing significance as a maritime suburb as well as a “political hotbed” with an activist culture (Baragwanath 2010, 15).
Waiheke was chosen as the focus for this study because festivals have always been an important and integral part of this island’s community life and often linked to the island’s rich activist culture that has used festivals as a way of community building and protesting on social issues. Waiheke’s island identity and economy also contribute in a significant way to the tourism product of the Auckland City. In recent years there has been an increase in cultural tourism events organized by the Auckland Tourism Events & Economic Development (ATEED), which has resulted in some events taken over from their local island focus to a regional, national and even global cultural festival tourism market, including the Sculptures in the Gulf biennial festival and the Jazz Art and Music Festival that attracts thousands of visitors annually. In this chapter we explore island festivals and related forms of public culture as performance events which construct and negotiate meaning for the hosting island community and the visitors that come to the island to participate (Magliocco 2001). Through the mapping of Waiheke island’s festivalscape, we explore related concepts like festivalization and festival reclamation and we discuss the contribution of the island’s festival culture to its identity and community organization. We conclude by linking these in our conclusions to the interconnected concepts of strange island and island imaginaries. Data for this research was collected through in depth interviews with island inhabitants who have been involved in organizing and volunteering for festivals and ethnographic observations, partly participatory, by one of the authors, John Stansfield, who has been a Waiheke island community member and activist for over three decades. Tourism is one of the activities most urgently in need of innovation and creativity to keep the boom going. This paper seeks to understand how mature destinations and tourism managers devise innovative and sustainable solutions in everyday practice. Current trends in demand call for active experiences that generate emotions, stir up feelings, present content, and provide a dose of pleasure. The case study presented here is an innovative street art project called Pinacoteca a Cel Obert (Open-Air Art Gallery), a clear example of reactivation, recovery and urban development that involves the local population and associations as part of the local government’s drive to encourage community participation and empower change with regard to urban issues. The viability and sustainability of this commendable example are analysed through in-depth interviews with the respective project managers, the guides who run the tours and the visitors who have participated in the tour. Cultural heritage has become a primary means for attracting visitors to cities, and a source of revenue through the design of guided tours that offer satisfying experiences at heritage sites. The aim of this study is to analyse participation, hedonism, knowledge, local culture and nostalgia as determinants of these experiences. A sample of 568 international tourists responded to a survey after taking a guided tour of Barcelona City Hall (Spain) and the data was used to test the proposed guided experience model by means of structural equation modelling. Results suggest the need to design guided tours with strong doses of active participation and local culture. Recent urban scholarship on the rise of the tourism industry, place marketing and the transformation of cities into entertainment destinations has been dominated by four major themes: the primacy of 'consumption' over 'production'; the eclipse of exchange-value by sign-value; the idea of autoreferential culture; and, the ascendancy of textual deconstruction and discursive analyses over political economy critiques of capitalism. This paper critically assesses the merits of these four themes using a case study of the Mardi Gras celebration in New Orleans. The analytical tools and categories of political economy are used to examine the rise and dominance of tourism in New Orleans, explore the consequences of this economic shift and identify the key actors and organised interests involved in marketing Mardi Gras. 'Marketing' is the use of sophisticated advertising techniques aimed at promoting fantasy, manipulating consumer needs, producing desirable tourist experiences and simulating images of place to attract capital and consumers. The paper points to the limitations of the 'cultural turn' and the 'linguistic turn' in urban studies and uses the concepts of commodié cation and spectacle as a theoretical basis for understanding the marketing of cities, the globalisation of local celebrations and the political economy of tourism. Despite their ubiquity and cultural prominence, academic study of arts festivals has been neglected. This article examines how cyclical arts festivals transform places from being everyday settings into temporary environments that contribute to the production, processing and consumption of culture, concentrated in time and place. Moreover, festivals also provide examples of how culture is contested. Support for the arts is part of a process used by élites to establish social distance between themselves and others. Festivals have traditionally been innovative and have always been controlled. In the past, artistic directors wielded this control but recent attempts by commercial interests to control festivals reflect a wider situation in which marketing agencies and managers are transforming arts and culture into arts and culture industries. Today, promoting arts festivals is related to place promotion, and this encourages ‘safe’ art forms. This highlights latent tensions between festival as art and economics, between culture and cultural politics. Stakeholder theory has been a popular heuristic for describing the management environment for years, but it has not attained full theoretical status. Our aim in this article is to contribute to a theory of stakeholder identification and salience based on stakeholders possessing one or more of three relationship attributes: power, legitimacy, and urgency. By combining these attributes, we generate a typology of stakeholders, propositions concerning their salience to managers of the firm, and research and management implications. Festive sociability is central for the transmission of tradition and is a fundamental field of interaction between the festive tradition and modernity. This sociability has a reflexivity and a public sphere of its own. The dominant modernist opposition between tradition and modernity is questioned with the help of a recent study of the Fire Festival of the ‘Fallas’ (Valencia, Spain). The paper is based on a systematic analysis of four community cultural festivals in destinations in the northern rivers region of NSW. The investigation explores how a sense of community and place are linked to the success of such events. It critically analyses the challenges facing communities using festivals to deliver complex social, political and cultural outcomes. It seeks to establish how festivals reconcile the tensions generated by different community voices. The paper demonstrates the character of community festivals. Its fine-grained analysis observes how different strategies have different consequences. Through surveys, interviews, media analysis and critical observation it establishes that self esteem, a sense of identity for internal and external purposes, economic drivers especially in the area of tourism, a festival's origins, event content, the dynamics between key stakeholders and community champions are all major contributors to distinctive events. Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach was first published in 1984 as a part of the Pitman series in Business and Public Policy. Its publication proved to be a landmark moment in the development of stakeholder theory. Widely acknowledged as a world leader in business ethics and strategic management, R. Edward Freeman’s foundational work continues to inspire scholars and students concerned with a more practical view of how business and capitalism actually work. Business can be understood as a system of how we create value for stakeholders. This worldview connects business and capitalism with ethics once and for all. On the 25th anniversary of publication, Cambridge University Press are delighted to be able to offer a new print-on-demand edition of his work to a new generation of readers. Festive sociability is central for the transmission of tradition and is a fundamental field of interaction between the festive tradition and modernity. This sociability has a reflexivity and a public sphere of its own. The dominant modernist opposition between tradition and modernity is questioned with the help of a recent study of the Fire Festival of the “Fallas” (Valencia, Spain). Faced with the perceived consequences of economic, social and cultural shifts variously labelled 'post-modernity', 'globalization' and 'the post-industrial revolution', an increasing number of urban authorities in the UK and beyond have adopted strategies of 're-imaging' their cities as 'creative cities' and/or attractive locations for footloose capital. The production of spectacular urban events has frequently played a central role in such strategies. Tony Harcup examines how one such event was conceived and developed to help transform the image of the West Yorkshire city of Leeds from that of a rather dirty northern English industrial town to that of a vibrant European 'city of culture'. As the event takes the form of a traditional funfair in the heart of a city, the author addresses historical and theoretical perspectives on fairs as locales of contested time and space. Drawing on the work of E.P. Thompson, Mikhail Bakhtin and others, and making a distinction between topdown, managed civic spectacles and a bottom-up, local street festival, Harcup goes on to question whether such events have the potential to transform participants' relations with each other and with their city. The ATLAS Events Special Interest Group was established in 2010, with a broad remit to act as a focus for events research and scholarship among ATLAS members. The group has already been active in o rganising specialist meetings on event themes, and has coordinated the production of the research monographs Exploring the Social Impact of Events (Routledge, 2013) and Event Design: Social perspectives and practices (Routledge, 2015). Following previous meetings in Breda, Peniche and Sheffield, the following meeting will be held in Salento, Italy on the theme of Creating and Bidding for Events in May 2015.
Subsequent discussions with members identified a need to undertake comparative research to facilitate the identification of trends and developments in events internationally. At present many members are undertaking individual research projects, the findings of which are hard to compare across borders or over time. By developing a common core to their event research, the members of the project hope to undertake comparative analyses that will aid our understanding of event processes and outcomes.
Aims
The aims of the project are:
• To provide a platform for comparative research on events worldwide
• To improve our knowledge of events, their visitors and their impacts
• To develop a database as a research resource and benchmarking tool for cultural and sporting events
• To produce case studies of best practice in events development, marketing and research
To date, data have been collected from events in a number of different countries, including Portugal, Finland, Russia, the UK and Cyprus. These data have already revealed some interesting differences in the basic patterns of event attendance and experience. However, we have not yet explored the event experience in too much detail. The development of the Event Experience Scale (EES) is a good opportunity to analyse the differences in the nature of event experiences.
As the next stage in the development of the project we are therefore inviting a small group of universities to undertake research with the EES to compare the experience of events in different countries, cultures and types of events. The aim is to develop a series of publications that address these issues in an international comparative context.
The research partners will use the same basic questionnaire including the EES items and questions relating to event visitation. The basic questionnaire can also be adjusted to include event-specific questions or questions related to specific student projects.
The basic research questions to be addressed include:
• What is the relationship between event experiences and event type (sports, culture, business, etc.)?
• How are event experiences affected by event content?
• How do event experiences relate to event location (country, region, urban, rural, etc)?
• How do different visitor types experience events??
By undertaking data collection together, the partners will be able to generate sufficient data to test a number of hypotheses related to the nature of event experiences with the use of a wide range of different statistical methods.
Research Instrument
The research will be based largely on the use of surveys implemented at or after events. The questionnaires will focus on a number of key areas, including:
• Reasons for attending
• Information sources
• Previous visits
• Overall evaluation of event and satisfaction
• Different aspects of event experience (EES scale)
• Expenditure
• Socio-demographic profile (age, education, occupation, media use)
The EES items
The 18 EES questions measure 4 underlying dimensions of festival and event experiences:
• affective engagement (questions 1 t/m 6),
• cognitive engagement (questions 7 t/m 12),
• physical engagement (questions 13 t/m 15)
• experience newness/novelty (questions 16 t/m 18)
More details of the project can be found on:
https://independent.academia.edu/gregrichards/ATLAS-Events-Group
... [more] CREATOUR, funded by Portugal 2020, is an incubator/demonstration and multidisciplinary research initiative, supporting collaborative research processes involving five research centres working with a range of cultural/creative organizations and other stakeholders located in small cities across Portugal in the Norte, Centro, Alentejo and Algarve regions. The project is informed by theoretical and methodological approaches from cultural/creative sector development, tourism, and
regional development. It is organized using the key dimensions of support to enhance value for creative sector development as a framework: 1) build knowledge and capacity, 2) support content development and link
creativity to place, and 3) strengthen network and cluster formation.
The project's overall objective is to develop and pilot an integrated approach and research agenda for creative tourism
in Portuguese small cities and rural areas.
Specific Scientific Objectives
1. To improve the level of knowledge and systematic analysis about creative tourism in small cities and rural areas
in Portugal
2. To understand the processes (under different conditions and situations) through which creative tourism activities
can be effectively developed, implemented, and made sustainable
3. To understand how an integrated approach to creative tourism may provide feasible options to improve the stability
of cultural/creative organizations of small cities and rural areas
4. To assess the multidimensional impacts (economic, cultural, social, environmental) of creative tourism activities in
small cities and rural areas on cultural/creative organizations, on tourism, and on local development generally.
Specific Application Objectives
5. To develop strong and sustainable partnerships between public and private stakeholders in each region to enhance
the positive impacts of tourism for local and regional development and residents' daily lives.
6. To contribute to the diversification of tourism offers by creating memorable, unique and linked-to-place creative
experiences for tourists.
7. To capitalize on new technologies (e.g. smart phone app, Augmented Reality) to provide contemporary creative.
experiences that meet the demands of creative tourists, based on cultural and historical heritages and local identities.
... [more] This article argues that the festivities have been severely impacted by the migration and, above all, the transformation of migration patterns; transformation that has changed the traditional arenas of rural organized life, until a few years ago, by the return of migrants. This work also suggests that the festivities are now dependent on one hand, the sense, or loss of consciousness, which ... [Show full abstract] represents the event for migrants, but also for their descendants, many of them born and raised in the di-aspora, on the other hand, the capacity of communities to maintain the validity of Community commitments of migrants which are reflected in the celebrations. This represents a big change from traditional ways of understanding the religious festivities. Though multiple-use conservationists (use the land for multiple purposes) and forever-wild preservationists (solely set aside land for nonhuman species) seem to be at odds, this article argues that key figures such as Gifford Pinchot and John Muir discredit this perceived discordance. As well, it probes into the unexplored arena of cowboy music gatherings as productive places for cooperation ... [Show full abstract] between the two groups. First, mystique of the cowboy is examined and unraveled through true stories of cowboy-environmentalist collaboration. This article addresses how cowboy poetry festivals function as entertainment and meeting places to support sustainable behavior through community-based social marketing techniques. Book description: The last decades of the 20th century witnessed strongly growing interest in evolutionary approaches to the human past. Even now, however, there is little real agreement on what "evolutionary archaeology" is all about. A major obstacle is the lack of consensus on how to define the basic principles of Darwinian thought in ways that are genuinely relevant to the archaeological ... [Show full abstract] sciences. Each chapter in this new collection of specially invited essays focuses on a single major concept and its associated key words, summarizes its historic and current uses, and then reviews case studies illustrating that concept's present and probable future role in research. What these authors say shows the richness and current diversity of thought among those today who insist that Darwinism has a key role to play in archaeology. Each chapter includes definitions of related key words. Because the same key words may have the same or different meanings in different conceptual contexts, many of these key words are addressed in more than one chapter. In addition to exploring key concepts, collectively the book's chapters show the broad range of ideas and opinions in this intellectual arena today. This volume reflects--and clarifies--debate today on the role of Darwinism in modern archaeology, and by doing so, may help shape the directions that future work in archaeology will take. 