Milwaukee's hotels are ready to welcome you! Whether you're an arts lover, a road tripper, a foodie, or looking for family fun, these packages and offers will make your vacation (or staycation!) in Milwaukee extra special. As destinations begin to reopen and events resume, we know safety is top of mind for travelers and meeting & event planners alike. Across the city, from transit to restaurants, Milwaukee's businesses and services are taking steps to ensure public health and safety. Milwaukee is known for always finding a way to have a good time. Although our summer calendar looks different this year, there is still so much going on. From guided kayak paddles to food tours, start exploring what's on tap in Milwaukee this summer. Our first priority is always the safety of our visitors, whatever events they choose to experience while in town. Learn more about the steps Milwaukee and the surrounding counties have taken to ensure that the events that continue will be held safely. When you're ready to plan your next event, Milwaukee is ready to help you safely and confidently host your meeting. Our team has worked closely with city, county, and state officials as well as the local business community to stay up to date with safety precautions for both residents and visitors. Explore To Do! Eat & Drink Stay Events Cultural Festivals Festival Irish Fest August Holiday Folk Fair International November Germanfest July Dragon Boat Festival August Polish Fest June Due to the ongoing impact of COVID-19, most of Milwaukee's summer festivals have been canceled for this year. We will miss the opportunity to celebrate with you, but please use this guide to plan your festival fun for 2021! Here is a list of festivals to explore in 2021 that celebrate Milwaukee’s diverse ethnic heritage and culture with food, dance, traditional crafts, cultural history and more! June Polish Fest Whether or not you’re of Polish descent, you’re sure to enjoy the music, dance, historical exhibits, and delectable Polish cuisine at one of America’s largest Polish-themed festivals. Don’t miss the Annual Chopin Youth Piano Competition, which has been a family favorite for years and showcases the talents of young and gifted pianists. Milwaukee Highland Games Discover all the fun of Scottish culture each year at the Milwaukee Highland Games in Wauwatosa’s Hart Park, where you’ll experience a world of kilts, pipe and drum bands, Highland dancing, Scottish food, the parade of the tartans, as well as traditional “heavy” events like shot putt and hammer throw. July Bastille Days Milwaukeeans are all proud Francophiles each year at this free festival in downtown’s Cathedral Square Park. One of the nation’s largest French-themed fests celebrates with French cuisine, live music, an international marketplace, chef and wine demonstrations, roaming busker entertainment, and the annual “Storm the Bastille” 5K run/walk. Festa Italiana Back on the lakefront, America’s premier Italian cultural event brings Italian charm and romance to Milwaukee. Browse the cultural exhibits, challenge friends and family to a game of bocce ball, savor the delicious cuisine, or be a part of the colorful religious procession following Sunday Mass. Every night offers explosive fun for all with a dazzling Italian-style fireworks show. German Fest Grab a stein, put on your finest lederhosen and cool off with your favorite brew at North America’s largest annually held German festival. Indulge in unforgettable German cuisine, marvel as craftsmen demonstrate old world artistry, enjoy a colorful brass band, or stroll through the Marktplatz for unique German gifts. You won’t want to miss the Dachshund Derby, the genealogy area or the Glockenspiel. Milwaukee Dragon Boat Festival This Chinese cultural festival features local dragon boat teams competing along the lakefront, along with Asian cuisine, music and dance performances, and hands-on opportunities to make opera masks, lanterns, and other Chinese crafts. August Bronzeville Week African American culture, art, and history merge together at the weeklong celebration of Milwaukee’s historic Bronzeville District during Bronzeville Week. Don’t miss the Bronzeville Cultural and Arts Festival, where you’ll find food vendors, booths selling African-inspired clothing and jewelry, live music, and much more. The rest of the week is chock-full of events to promote local businesses and residents. Irish Fest The world’s largest Irish cultural festival brings the Emerald Isle to Milwaukee’s lakefront through cultural exhibits, theater, and craft demonstrations. Listen to traditional Irish music, admire the Irish dancers jigging to heart-pounding beats, or enjoy the roaming performers dressed in traditional costumes. Shop at one of the two marketplaces to take a piece of Ireland home with you. Mexican Fiesta Spice things up at Mexican Fiesta, an authentic, south-of-the-border experience, featuruing mouth-watering food, rousing mariachi bands, foot stomping rhythms, and an elaborate swirl of traditional dancers. Walk through the cultural pavilion and learn about the history and traditions of Mexican and Latin cultures from ancient civilizations to the present. October Hunting Moon Pow Wow Potawatomi Hotel & Casino and the Wisconsin Center welcome Native American tribal groups to the Hunting Moon Pow Wow, a celebration of culture and traditions, involving dance, drum, and singing competitions. Above all, it is an opportunity to socialize and strengthen the bonds between Native people. November Holiday Folk Fair International Explore the world of music, food, dance and arts from all around the world at this annual gathering of more than 50 ethnic groups at the Wisconsin State Fair Park. The Holiday Folk Fair fair features a world café and International Bazaar with hundreds of items made by skilled artisans from distant lands. Christkindlmarket Experience a traditional German outdoor Christmas market in the plaza outside Fiserv Forum. Christkindlmarket combines German traditions with goods from vendors from around the world. SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER See You Soon VISIT Milwaukee is an award-winning convention & visitors bureau providing information on premier events, hotel accommodations, transportation, restaurants and fun things to do in Milwaukee, Wisconsin! Experience the warm hospitality of Milwaukee's local businesses. We hope to see you soon! 