A custom made itinerary is the ultimate way to see the world how YOU want. Customise one of our adventures for your family, business, school or friends - or create your dream holiday from scratch with World Expeditions. World Expeditions is one of the world’s leading adventure travel companies offering ground breaking itineraries on every continent. The company has been operating small group trekking and adventure travel holidays and vacations since 1975. World Expeditions. In some ways, a festival is the ultimate way to experience a country. The immersion into the culture, celebrations and community can be a life-changing experience that few outsiders may encounter. Usually crammed into a few short days, these festivals can be a fleeting yet unforgettable experience. Naadam Festival - Mongolia Mongolia’s Naadam Festival (also locally termed “the three games of men") is an ancient cultural spectacle that combines colourful costumes and performances with an exciting tournament of the traditional sports of archery, wrestling and bareback horse riding. This biggest festival of the year is held from July 11-13 in Mongolia’s capital Ulaanbaatar, and presents visitors with an incredible opportunity to experience the culture and people of this amazing land. Holi Festival of Colours - India Holi is one of the most anticipated celebrations in the Hindu calendar, most widely recognised as being India’s (if not the world’s) most colourful festival. Aptly named “Festival of Colours”, it involves covering everyone in brightly coloured powder and water. Celebrated annually on the last full moon day of the lunar month Phalunga, it usually falls during March or sometimes late February, and has many purposes; to celebrate the victory of good over evil, the beginning of Spring with all its beautiful colours and vibrant life, the beginning of the new year, as well as new beginnings with relationships and conflicts. The colourful ritual is said to be based on the story of Lord Khrishna, a reincarnation of Lord Vishnu, who liked to play pranks by splashing maids with water and colours. Kandy Esala Perahera – Sri Lanka The Esala Perahera is one of the oldest and grandest Buddhist festivals in Sri Lanka, and one of the most colourful religious pageants in Asia.
Held annually to pay homage to the Sacred Tooth Relic of Lord Buddha, the festival involves a ritual of carrying the sacred tooth relic through the streets of Kandy in exceptional style, including a parade of singers, dancers, musicians, acrobats, all accompanied by decorated tuskers and elephants. The spectacle is a sight to behold, and locals use the celebration to beseech blessings from the gods for rain to enrich the crops of Sri Lanka. Korzok Gustor Festival - India For a unique look into the remote cultures of the Himalaya, take time out to experience the Korzok Gustor Festival, a colourful two‑day spectacle, attended by the Changpa herdsmen, the locals and their families. Set in the tiny hamlet of Korzok in Ladakh, this photogenic annual festival centres around the triumph of good over evil, and finishes with a dismemberment of the “Storma” (sacrificial cake) and celebration over the assassination of an apostate Tibetan King from the 9th century. Featuring colourful rituals, masks and dances, the photo opportunities of the festival are wide and varied, you can capture the elaborate demonic and animalistic faces masks, traditional costumes, musical instruments and theatrical dances - or simply turn your attention to the glass-like expanse of Tso-Moriri and the snow-capped peaks that hug the shore. Jambay Lakhang festival – Bhutan If your idea of a good festival involves naked mid-night dances, then speak no more! The Jambay Lakhang festival in Bhutan features the most spectacular midnight sacred dance (tercham), done to purify sins and predict a good harvest. Complemented by an extravagant fire ritual, this festival lasts for five days in November and includes a number of cultural dances during the day with significant cultural stories and meaning behind them. The Hornbill Festival - India Situated in the north-east of India, Nagaland is the uncontested “wild-east” of India. On the edge of the India and Myanmar border, it is an otherworldly place that once a year is home to the “festival of festivals”, otherwise known as the Hornbill Festival. The week-long event is complete with traditional performances, sports, ceremonies and games, exposing the great culture and traditions of the great Naga communities. Held in the first week of December, this festival is a rich cultural treat for the inquisitive traveller looking for a deeper insight into the remote communities of India. Thimphu Tshechu Festival - Bhutan Bhutan is home to a number of exciting cultural and religious festivals, but you’ll be hard pressed to find one as colourful and spectacular as the Thimphu Tsechu festival! One of the biggest in the country, it runs over three days and is preceded by the Dromchoe; three days and nights of prayers and rituals to invoke the gods. One of the many highlights is the impressive ethnic folk dance performed in the courtyard of the famous Tashichho Dzong. Dancers in colourful costumes perform culturally and religiously significant dances to purify the ground, influence the spirits. and teach lessons about how ones behaviour affects the afterlife, Timket Festival - Ethiopia In what is considered the most colourful event of the year in the country, Ethiopia’s Timket festival is a Ethiopian Orthodox Christian festival marking Epiphany. Each year, thousands of pilgrims flock to Gondar to re-enact the baptism of Jesus on the River Jordan, taking a dip in the holy waters of the historical Fasilides Bath. The two day event begins with a procession of the sacred “tabots”, holy replicas of the Ark of the Covenant. After the ceremony, the festival becomes a jubilant celebration with rollicking dances and singing – an unforgettable scene of spectacular colour and joy. Inti Raymi - Peru Also known as the “sun festival”, the Inti Raymi festival is a religious ceremony that dates back 500 years to the Incan Empire’s heyday, and honours one of the most venerated gods in the Inca Empire, Inti. Celebrated on the shortest day of the year, also known as winter solstice, the event traditionally involved the sacrifice of an animal to ensure healthy crops. The sacrifice was banned by the Spaniards, and today the festival involves a precession through the streets with music, prayers, dancing, scattered flowers, with women with brooms to sweep away the evil spirits and priests and participants dressed as snakes, condors and pumas. It’s the second largest festival in South America with hundreds of thousands of people travelling to Cuzco to celebrate the week long event. Saga Dawa Festival - Tibet Tibet’s Mt Kailash has long regarded by Hindus and Buddhists as the Mythical Mount Meru: a sacred mountain considered the navel of the earth and the axis of the universe. Mount Kailash is revered in both Hindu and Buddhist legends, and each year is at the centre Saga Dawa festival, where thousands of pilgrims from throughout Tibet and beyond gather to pay homage to the mountain and celebrate the renewal of the Tarboche flagpole. People from all over Tibet flock attend the festival to attach their small prayer flags to the new pole, and it is believed that good deeds and prayers are multiplied thousandfold during the event. This mesmerising religious event is an absolute must for travellers interested in straying far from the tourist tracks. Book your Journey to Mount Kailashto witness the festival today! Top cruise destinations around the world to some of the most stunning and diverse locations. Wildlife-rich, aesthetically stunning, rugged, breathtaking, & the world's most untouched and uninhabited areas About Us Get Social World Expeditions hold an Air Travel Organisers Licence (ATOL) no. 4491 issued by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA). All the flights and flight-inclusive holidays on this website are financially protected by the ATOL scheme. When you pay you will be supplied with an ATOL Certificate. Please ask for it and check to ensure that everything you booked (flights, hotels and other services) is listed on it. Please see our booking conditions for further information or for more information about financial protection and the ATOL Certificate go to www.atol.org.uk/atolcertificate. Adventure South NZ is unrivalled in their geographic coverage, originality and overall quality of adventures holidays in New Zealand. Choose from walking, cycling, winter or multi-activity holidays, on either the North or South Island. Australian Walking Holidays Australian Walking Holidays specialises in small group guided walking adventures. Since 1982 we have been guiding small groups of travellers on Australia's finest walks across our tropical, coastal or red centre landscapes. Great Canadian Trails Great Canadian Trails specialises in active holidays in Canada. With both guided and supported self-guided options available, our unique itineraries draw upon some of Canada's most inspiring parks, trails and landscapes from coast to coast. Huma Charity Challenge Huma enables those with adventurous spirits to challenge themselves and make a difference for a cause close to their heart. Travel, fundraise and meet life-long friends on one of Huma's meaningful and unique challenges around the world. Sherpa Expeditions Sherpa Expeditions is a specialist in self guided and guided walking and cycling holidays in the United Kingdom and Europe. Detailed route notes provide a definite guide to places in Europe for active walkers and cyclists. Tasmanian Expeditions Tasmanian Expeditions is the most experienced operator of treks and adventure travel holidays in Tasmania. We own and operate the most comprehensive range of adventure holidays available across Tasmania's varied landscapes. UTracks UTracks are the active European holiday specialists. Whether you prefer cycling or walking, 2-star or 4-star, small groups or self guided, land, river or sea – UTracks can help you to explore Europe exactly the way you want. World Youth Adventures World Youth Adventures is our specialist division dedicated to organising tailor made overseas school group adventures. Specialists in Service Learning projects, choose from more destinations than any other school group provider. Yomads Yomads offers adventures for the 20s and 30s on six continents. Designed as a way to bring young and likeminded travellers together, Yomads caters to those interested in lightly structured and active trips that allow freedom to roam and explore. Manage Cookies When you visit any web site, it may store or retrieve information on your browser, mostly in the form of cookies. This information might be about you, your preferences, your device or used to make the site work as you expect it to. The information does not usually identify you directly, but it can give you a more personalized web experience. You can choose not to allow some types of cookies. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings. However, you should know that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on the site and the services we are able to offer. Strictly Necessary Cookies These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will no longer work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. DotNetNuke (DNN)Google Analytics Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies, we will not know when you have visited our site. None Functional Cookies These cookies allow the provision of enhance functionality and personalization, such as videos and live chats. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies, then some or all of these features may not function properly. Live Chat Targeting Cookies These cookies are set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant ads on other sites and promotional activities through our newsletters. They work by uniquely identifying your browser and device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will not experience our targeted advertising across different websites or via newsletters. Active CampaignBooking.comFacebook PixelFacebook Sharing Our website uses cookies to improve your experience and to bring you relevant advertisements only. You can learn more by reading our privacy policy. More information 