International Cultural and Dance Festival Delhi, India 22 July - 27 July International Festival of Dance and Songs International Cultural and Dance Festival Delhi, India 22 July - 27 July Overview Festival City – Delhi Delhi is the capital territory of India. Delhi is the largest commercial center in northern India.The National Capital Territory of Delhi has its own Legislative Assembly, Lieutenant Governor, council of ministers, and Chief Minister. The people of Delhi are referred to as Delhiites or Dilliwalas. The city is referenced in various idioms of the Northern Indo Aryan languages. Delhi Culture at a Glance. Delhi has been ruled by different kinds of rulers that belong to different regions and thus follow their own traditions. This is the reason that the capital city of India has a vast variety of traditions and cultures with different faith in every nook and corner of the city which means a combination of ancient and modern beauty. New Delhi has been acting as a host of different types of cultures and this attracts more tourists towards this charming city. It enlightens the heart with every passing monument, forts, markets, and colorful people with mass diversity all around. The Dilli walls are culturally and religiously incredibly united. That is why Delhi is one of the top places in the list of tourists and serving as the complete tourism hub for the visitors. General Rules International Folklore Festival is characterized by the unique format of the event, variety of folklore and performing features of dances, from all corners of the Globe, openness to the new, combination of entertainment and high artistic level of participants’ performance, where the dance and cultures of the World UNITE in the heart of India’s capital New Delhi. The concept of the festival-contest meets the actual world trends of folklore culture popularization. Particularly it corresponds with the initiatives of UNESCO that has called the world community to the active promotion of dialog between cultures and generations through folk art. Project goals are the creation of objective rating of folklore performers-improvisers, promotion of up-and-coming folklore performers, and attraction of interest of the national and foreign community to the Festival and its participants. The Festival is destined to answer for the popularization of folklore culture and wide public recognition of the performer’s talent. Admission to the Festival:Festival Organization will provide space to all folklore dancing groups and also equally to some of the Dancing/Musical groups who want to share our stage for their cultural project promotions, Dancing School / Academy Promotions, College/University Dance Group Promotions, and Music Album Promotions. Festival Organization will select the best 10 groups from 4 corners of the World, who are requested to pay for the accommodation and Food thereby selecting theAccommodation packages of 175Euros/240Euros. Conditions: The Festival is open to hosting all dancing and musical performance groups. Participants can perform on live music as well as on CD/USB too. Participants of the group should be 10-40+ members. Participants of the Music Bands should at least be 5 members.Participants of the group members should be of any age from 5+years.Groups should get Flight Tickets and Travel Insurance on their own.Groups should choose the accommodation packages stated below. Performance Details: The Group should perform 3-4 different folk dances with 15 minutes programs every 2 times a day at provided venues. Venues for performances will include open-air stages, theaters, halls, Auditoriums, and scenic spots without special stage facilities or lighting equipment. Groups should attend the rehearsals on time. The group should provide 2 workshops and 1 roadshow at the festival. The group has to take part in all programs, the festival organizers made its whole period and do not undertake any other performances, during the festival period they have no right to cancel any program without any approval from the Festival Committee. Arrival on 22nd July by 12:00 and (Lunch will be the first meal). Departure on 27th July by 10:00 - 12:00 (after breakfast)New Delhi Airport TransfersDelhi City Tour (Excluding Monuments fee) All application forms will be evaluated by the Organization Committee. Official invitations will be sent to all groups as soon as possible. Dates 15/07/2021 - 20/07/2021 18/11/2021 - 23/11/2021 Pricing 15/07 - 20/07 5 days (4 nights) = 175 € per person 18/11 - 23/11 6 days (5 nights) = 240 € per person Location How to get there The participating groups shall arrive in New Delhi at Indira Gandhi International Airport, the SMC organization committee will arrange a coach to meet the foreign groups at the airport and escort them to the hotel. Travel Requirements:Each group should cover the traveling expenses of their international flight expenses for the round-trip. Every member of the group has to have Travel Insurance which should include your medical and accidental coverage during the period of the festival. Extra expenses, such as expenses in the hotel for beverages, laundry, room service, long-distance calls are not allowed to pay by the organization committee. Things to do Trip Planner It will be our pleasure to make your trip an unforgettable experience! We can provide the following services for your group: accommodation during the trip (in case you need a sleepover on your way to the chosen destination) 