The Maharashtra government has decided to organise 20 cultural festivals in different parts of the state. In a bid to promote tourism, the Maharashtra government has decided to organise 20 cultural festivals in different parts of the state. The festivals will be organised by the Regional Offices of the Directorate of Tourism with the help of the local district administration. The government, though, has emphasised that Covid-19 protocols will be in place. The places identified for the festivals are the six divisions of the state - Konkan, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nagpur. It is said that these cultural events will be held in the months of February and March. The festivals include Grape Harvesting Festival in Nashik district, Nandur Madhameshwar Festival, Kajve Festival in Bhandardara area of the Ahmednagar district and Laling Fort Festival in the Dhule district. In Konkan, tourists will get to enjoy Vengurla (Sagareshwar) Festival in the Sindhdurg District, Shrivardhan Festival in the Raigad District, Katalshilpa Festival in the Ratnagiri District and Velas /Anjarle Festival. The Aurangabad division has decided to organise some popular festivals including thirteen festivals in Osmanabad district, Kapildhara festival in Beed district and hotel festival in Nanded district. In the Amravati division, Sindkhed Raja Festival will be organised in Buldhana district, Narnala Fort Festival in Akola district and Tipeshwar Sanctuary Festival in Yavatmal district. The Nagpur division will also organise various festivals. These include Ramtek Festival in the Nagpur district, Bor Dam and Wildlife Festival and Bodhalaksa Bird Festival in Gondia district. Government sources said that these places have been chosen so that they can be brought to notice. Dr Dhananjay Savalkar, director of tourism, said, "The aim is to bring the not so popular places in the state on the tourist map of Maharashtra." "The coronavirus crisis was very difficult. Now that the situation is returning to normal slowly, Maharashtra is gearing up to welcome tourists. The festival will provide an opportunity to roam around the state and we are appealing to tourists to join the festival with the aim of understanding Maharashtra. The state has a great cultural heritage. Tourists will get a chance to see the heritage and beauty of the state through these festivals," he added. 