If you are all heart for art, we have the perfect list of cultural festivals for you to attend this year. From being captivated by an enthralling dance performance to deciphering the artist's message in a painting, we give you a complete list of art and culture events to watch out for. Mark your calendar and make a beeline for these festivals in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore and Goa. CULTURAL EVENTS | MUMBAI In the Shadows of the Gods (May 9) In the Shadow of the Gods is an interpretive, solo Bharatanatyam performance by renowned dancer and choreographer Revanta Sarabhai. The show will consist of five pieces in the classical pandanallur style of Bharatanatyam. Head to Royal Opera House to witness this spectacle. A Ramachandran: 50 Years of Art Practice (until June 12) The National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) is hosting an exhibition displaying the works of eminent artist A Ramachandran. Conceptualised by R Siva Kumar, it presents over 260 works of the artist done between 1968 and 2019, and includes mural-size paintings, sculptural installations and single piece works, etchings, watercolours, drawings and illustrated books. Mumbai Art Fair (October 11-13) A contemporary art fair for independent artists, Mumbai Art Fair is an initiative to promote different art forms. While the main exhibition will showcase paintings, installations, sculptures and more, there will also be musical performances, poetry recitation, etc., at the venue. Mumbai Art Fair will take place at Nehru Centre and visitors can directly buy art from the artists showcasing their work. CULTURAL EVENTS | NEW DELHI This That and the Other (until July 31) Artist Sheila Makhijani's work is on display at Talwar Gallery at the exhibition titled This That and the Other. Along with her recent works, it offers a rare opportunity to see her work from a quarter century ago. Don't miss an installation titled ‘all over the place' being exhibited for the first time in India since its creation in The Netherlands in 1994. Advertisement Photo Caption: This that and the other, Gouache on paper (in 25 parts), 70 x 85 (overall dimensions), 2017. Photo courtesy of the Artist and Talwar Gallery, New York | New Delhi Drishyakala (until July 31) Drishyakala is a unique art museum inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi at Red Fort's Barrack No. 4. On display are four exhibitions that explore the development of Indian modern art from 18th century onwards. An array of over 400 artworks by India's leading artists from the DAG collection make this exhibition worth your while. India Art Festival (November 14-17) Founded in 2011, India Art Festival (IAF) brings together art galleries, art dealers, art buyers, artists, interior designers, architects and art connoisseurs under one roof every year. Apart from established artists, IAF is a great platform to see the works of emerging and independent artists. The art fair will take place in New Delhi, at the Thyagaraj Stadium. Photo Caption: One of the artworks at India Art Festival. Photo courtesy: Facebook CULTURAL EVENTS | BANGALORE Mindfulness with Mandalas (May 4) Artist Ujjwal Gulati hosts a workshop to help you learn the art of mandalas (diagram, chart or geometric pattern that has spiritual and ritual symbolism in Hinduism and Buddhism) as well as their therapeutic benefits. From learning to draw them to learning the art of mindfulness as you do so, this is a unique experience to have this summer. The Bohemian House in Richmond Town will host this event from 2 to 5 pm. Advertisement Photo Caption: Mandala art by Ujjwal Gulati Of Silence, Solitude & Slow Time (until May 9) This photo exhibition at Gallery Manora displays the works of Giridhar Khasnis and tries to invoke solemn moods as well as trace the labyrinths of a silent space and rhythms. World on a Plate (June 1-2) Renowned British chef Marco Pierre White comes to Bangalore for the fourth edition of World on a Plate. This year, the theme is garden of Eden, with a focus on fresh, organic produce to create gourmet food. From masterclasses to fine dining, gear up for a gastronomical journey at this event. Get your tickets for this event to be held at Ritz-Carlton on booking sites. CULTURAL EVENTS | KOLKATA A walk to explore Satyajit Ray's life and works (until May 2) To mark the birth anniversary of legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray, a walking tour by LetUsGo will take you through the lane where Ray lived whilst highlighting interesting facts about his life and work. The unique walk will take place around his house on Bishop Lefroy Road, Bhowanipur from 7 to 9 am. Vir Das: The Loved Tour (May 24) One of India's top stand-up comics of international acclaim, Vir Das will make you laugh out loud with his new set at Kala Mandir Auditorium. The multi-faceted personality who also has a special on Netflix is sure to have you in splits with his jokes and funny take on things that matter. You can get tickets on booking websites and apps. CAMP: A Photogenetic Line (until July 15) On display at the Experimenter in Kolkata is this exhibit of a 100-foot-long branching sequence of cut-outs from the photo archives of The Hindu. As you follow the sequence, the people featured either grow younger or older while things in the background come to the foreground, or vice versa. CULTURAL EVENTS | GOA Indian Hip Hop Dance Championship (May 11) One of India's top dance festivals, this championship is in its eighth edition—the winners have previously represented the country at international hip hop dance festivals. If you love dance, watch it live this year as people battle it out to win the coveted prize. The grand finale of the event will be held at Ravindra Bhavan in Margao.Tickets are available on booking websites. International Film Festival of India (November 20-28) IFFI, an annual festival, is one of Goa's most popular events of the year which draws industry experts as well as film buffs to the beach state. 2019 marks the golden jubilee of IFFI, and it is going to be a grand affair. If your love affair with movies is strong, make a beeline for this festival by registering online. The event takes place in Panaji. Serendipity Arts Festival (December 15-22) The last month of the year sees the capital city of Goa, Panaji, host the Serendipity Arts Festival (SAF)—a cultural extravaganza spanning eight days. The festival is curated by fourteen eminent artists across different disciplines of art including visual, performing and culinary. The platform offers immersive art experiences with exhibitions, performances and more. 