Why You Should Tap Into Trending Content Before Your Competitors What content is engaging people in your industry right now? Trending stories reveal what matters to your audience. Trending content is content that drives engagement, passion, shares and comments. When content trends and stories break, you need to be part of the conversation and share your own passion and insights as early as possible. Last to the trending party? You may as well not show up. Trending content is a feature of every industry. Gaining insights by trend spotting
content is a challenge but being the first to know what is engaging your audience and what stories are about to trend gives you a major competitive edge. By knowing what content and stories matter right now to your audience – or are about to matter – you can create a deeper level of engagement. You can be the first to share viral content, the first to comment and share viewpoints, to create content quickly around the stories that matter most to your audience. In short, you build credibility. We look at how you can create a competitive edge with the new BuzzSumo Trending
content tool. Introducing BuzzSumo Trending To stay on top of trending stories in your industry you may currently use a mix of tools such as news readers, Twitter lists, LinkedIn groups, RSS feeds or Facebook feeds. Now with BuzzSumo Trending you can monitor the content and articles that are trending in any topic across all social networks in a single feed. You can view today’s trending content for all topics and for major categories such as News, Sports, Technology and Entertainment. You can also see today’s trending videos. You can sort content by trending (the velocity of shares) or the most shared stories today. Find Trending Stories and Act Before Your Competitors With BuzzSumo Trending’s advanced filters you can also filter by time: For example, you can see the content published in the last two hours or four hours that is already trending. Once you have identified the content that is resonating you can share or create and publish your own content around the topic such as a viewpoint or different angle. We have already seen great case studies where people using this feature are increasing their shares and retweets. We are also seeing examples of companies jumping on a trending topic and creating content that goes viral. Create Custom Trending Feeds For Any Topic With BuzzSumo Trending you can create a custom feed for your own topics such as your sports team, favorite brands, interests or major events. Trending allows you to monitor and curate trending stories in any area. So you can be the first to know, to share and to act. BuzzSumo’s Advanced Trending Package provides multiple custom feeds. So you can create multiple feeds for topics you are monitoring from fashion to sports. You can also set up feeds for clients and their brands. For example, you may want to create feeds around: Apple and Apple Products Star Wars UK General Election Start-ups Marketing You can share your custom trending dashboards with colleagues, relevant groups and clients. Or make them publicly available via your site or on social media. Create Custom Feeds For Website Domains You can also create custom dashboards to track trending content on a specific website or group of websites. So if you want to track a group of fashion websites or a specific set of newspapers just type in their urls and create a custom feed. In this way you can now monitor what is working for your competitors in real time. If there is nothing trending today you can still use BuzzSumo’s Content Analyzer to see their most shared content for any competitor domain over the last year, six months, week or any specific period. Create RSS Feeds Another of BuzzSumo Trending’s advanced features is the ability to create RSS feeds for any feeds including your custom feeds. With this nifty little feature, you can integrate tools such as Feedly, IFTTT or Flipboard to monitor trending content. Summary Knowledge is power, especially when it comes to Trending stories and content. It’s a race to get to the source of power first. Tracking, curating, sharing and acting on trending content gives you the competitive edge. You can create a deeper level of engagement by understanding what content and stories matter to your audience right now. 