In an unofficial vote, Congress and the American people have decided that it's okay to use the Internet while the president is speaking. On Twitter, users sent 1.7 million tweets related to the President Barack Obama's State of the Union address duri... Facebook will now surface trending topics alongside the News Feed, using a new product the company simply calls "trending." Trending will show a personalized list of popular topics for each user, combining their interests with content getting the mos... In addition to cat GIFs, #foodporn and breaking news, Twitter offers something even more special: a look at what's "trending." But in 2012, Twitter changed the system so that your default settings show algorithmic trends tailored specifically to you ... When the 4chan imageboard community helped make #cutforbieber a trending topic on Twitter and the subject of more than a half dozen news stories Monday, the world collectively gasped at the thought of Justin Bieber fans cutting themselves in response... A fourth grade boy with cancer was a trending topic on Twitter last weekend because the Twitterverse thought it was the boy's dying wish. But up until a couple weeks ago, the nine-year-old, Ryan, had never heard of Twitter. He does, however, have bra... Harry Potter fans flocked to social media sites on Thursday to celebrate the news that author J.K. Rowling will be taking a crack at adult fiction. The best-selling author has announced that she will be returning to writing, and the content this time... Google+, the search giant's new social network, has rolled out trending topics within Google+ Search. Mashable has been informed that trending topics quietly rolled out Thursday night. Like Twitter's Trending Topics, the Google+ version lists 10 of t... is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. Powered by its own proprietary technology, Mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. 