More Trending News Bobby Deol became a topic of discussion on Twitter when a video clip of his several dance performances went viral. The same was shared by a fan page which goes by the name @Bobbywood_ and feature the actor showing moves which resemble a cricket umpire's signals during a match. The compilation was so funny that many people started tagging ICC and IPL requesting them to take the 'Soldier' actor in their umpires panel. Indian cricketer Jasprit Bumrah got married to sports presenter Sanjana Ganesan in Goa on Monday. Indian cricketer Mayank Agarwal also congratulated him for the wedding. But the Indian batsman made a goof-up that started a meme fest on social media. This year, Korean boy band BTS earned their first Grammy nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance, but they lost out to Lady Gaga and Ariana Grande in the category. However, they won three awards at Kids' Choice Awards. In less than two years after it was dethroned by "Avengers: Endgame", "Avatar" has once again become the highest-grossing film at the worldwide box office following the film's re-release in China this week. As per the Zomato delivery man's version, Hitesha Chandrani refused to pay him and denied returning the food packets he had delivered. Kamraj alleges Chandrani abused him and followed him to the lift. Now, the app has released a statement over the issue Social media star Dananeer Mobeen who became an overnight sensation with her 'Pawri Ho Rhi' video that became a viral trend revealed that she is a die-hard fan of Bollywood actress Kareena Kapoor Khan's character Poo from the film Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham. As the world celebrated the 89th birth anniversary of renowned Indian professor and scientist Udupi Ramachandra Rao, Google also honored India's Satellite Man' as it shared a doodle dedicated to him. Professor Rao, who passed away in 2017, was an Indian space scientist and chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), who propelled India's space program to dizzying heights. Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's explosive interview with American TV star Oprah Winfrey has stirred a storm on social media. Twitter is divided in extending support after the interview aired on TV. Keeping up with the trend, Amul also joined the bandwagon and gave its own twist to the interview. 