Jaffer Sait Adv T R Balakrishnan Anas V P Bineesh Kodiyeri T Krishna Raju Mohammed Noufal T H K M Abdul Rahiman T M Iqbal Member Kasargod Tinu Yohannan Member Former International Player Ombudsman K P Jyothindranath (Retired Justice) (High Court of Kerala) Electoral Officer K Sasidharan Nair (Former State Election Commissioner) Kerala Cricket Association’s vision is to constantly strive to excel in developing, organizing and promoting the game of cricket and its infrastructure in Kerala. Toward this end, the body of dedicated professionals that encompasses KCA, is engaged in utilizing all the resources at their command so that Kerala will be a force to reckon with where cricket is concerned. KCA constantly endeavors to make cricket healthy, competitive and safe – a wholesome experience that everyone can enjoy and cherish. Thanks to the effort and high degree of professionalism of all at KCA, cricket in Kerala now promises to grow in leaps and bounds and the administrators of the game are up to the challenge of maintaining the integrity of its commitment to it. An ambitious project to change the profile of Kerala Cricket Kerala Cricket Association was formed in the year 1951 and registered under the Travancore-Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Act 1955 (Act XII of 1955). Prologue Kerala Cricket Association was formed in the year 1951 and is affiliated to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and the Kerala State Sports Authority (KSSA) in the State. There are fourteen district cricket association affiliated to it.
As its inception in 1951 it was known as the Travancore-Cochin Cricket Association. Today it is one of the premier state sports associations in Kerala, affiliated to BCCI and Kerala State Sports Authority. Kerala State also has a large following for the game of cricket as in other parts of the country. Unfortunately for us, the vagaries of the weather have affected the development of the game in the state; the prolonged rainy season has been a matter of concern to the administrators and players, who are unable to keep in good nick because of the wet and uncertain climate. The development of infrastructure has been pivotal in the process. Indoor practice facilities have been few and far between, so practicing in the rains is out of the question. Even proper grounds and stadiums are hard to come by the result is backwardness in the progress of the game in the state. Kerala has always been in the forefront in its bid to foster sporting talent in India. Though Keralites in general favor football over any other sport, there were a few pioneers in cricket as well.
The Mambally family of Clincher, contributed greatly to the enrichment of the game. PM Raghavan, who led the first Travancore-Cochin team in the Ranji Trophy in 1951, was a hard hitting batsman and an astute captain.
KV Kellappan Thampuran was the live wire behind the great achievements of the Tripunithura Cricket club, formed in 1935. It was he who was the brain behind the limited over format. Col. Godavarma Raja of the Travancore royal family was responsible for putting Kerala on the sports and tourist map of India. The Kerala Cricket Association emerged from the Travancore-Cochin Cricket Association formed by him in 1950. He was the first from the state to become a vice-president of the BCCI. Bineesh Kodiyeri T Krishna Raju Mohammed Noufal T H K M Abdul Rahiman T M Iqbal Tinu Yohannan VISION Kerala Cricket Association’s vision is to constantly strive to excel in developing, organizing and promoting the game of cricket and its infrastructure in Kerala. Toward this end, the body of dedicated professionals that encompasses KCA, is engaged in utilizing all the resources at their command so that Kerala will be a force to reckon with where cricket is concerned. KCA constantly endeavors to make cricket healthy, competitive and safe – a wholesome experience that everyone can enjoy and cherish. Thanks to the effort and high degree of professionalism of all at KCA, cricket in Kerala now promises to grow in leaps and bounds and the administrators of the game are up to the challenge of maintaining the integrity of its commitment to it. MISSION An ambitious project to change the profile of Kerala Cricket Kerala Cricket Association was formed in the year 1951 and registered under the Travancore-Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Act 1955 (Act XII of 1955). Prologue Kerala Cricket Association was formed in the year 1951 and is affiliated to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and the Kerala State Sports Authority (KSSA) in the State. There are fourteen district cricket association affiliated to it.
As its inception in 1951 it was known as the Travancore-Cochin Cricket Association. Today it is one of the premier state sports associations in Kerala, affiliated to BCCI and Kerala State Sports Authority. Kerala State also has a large following for the game of cricket as in other parts of the country. Unfortunately for us, the vagaries of the weather have affected the development of the game in the state; the prolonged rainy season has been a matter of concern to the administrators and players, who are unable to keep in good nick because of the wet and uncertain climate. The development of infrastructure has been pivotal in the process. Indoor practice facilities have been few and far between, so practicing in the rains is out of the question. Even proper grounds and stadiums are hard to come by the result is backwardness in the progress of the game in the state. HISTORY OF KCA Kerala has always been in the forefront in its bid to foster sporting talent in India. Though Keralites in general favor football over any other sport, there were a few pioneers in cricket as well.
The Mambally family of Clincher, contributed greatly to the enrichment of the game. PM Raghavan, who led the first Travancore-Cochin team in the Ranji Trophy in 1951, was a hard hitting batsman and an astute captain.
KV Kellappan Thampuran was the live wire behind the great achievements of the Tripunithura Cricket club, formed in 1935. It was he who was the brain behind the limited over format. Col. Godavarma Raja of the Travancore royal family was responsible for putting Kerala on the sports and tourist map of India. The Kerala Cricket Association emerged from the Travancore-Cochin Cricket Association formed by him in 1950. He was the first from the state to become a vice-president of the BCCI. 