More iPhone, More to Love $49.99 iPhone SE 64GB when you switch. Online: Bring your number to Cricket on a $60/mo. plan. Pay first two months of service and tax at sale. No activation fee online. Restr’s apply. In-store: Bring your number to Cricket on a $60/mo. plan. First month svc. charge & tax due at sale. Activ. (in-store, $25/line) & add’l fees may apply. Restr’s apply. See offer details. More 5G devices for less moolah Get 5G for as low as $99.99. Bring your number to Cricket on a $60/mo. plan. First mo. svc. charge & tax due at sale. No activ. fee online. In-store activ. ($25/line) & add'l fees may apply. Restr's apply. Prices vary by device. 5G may not be available in your area. For 5G coverage, see cricketwireless.com/map. See offer details. Are you considering changing your cell phone carrier? Cricket has a variety of cell phone
plans to fit any lifestyle, so you can choose a cell phone plan that's just right. Here
are some advantages of switching to Cricket Wireless. Top Reasons to Choose Cricket No annual contract for cell phone service - Cricket's prepaid
phones aren't tied to an annual contract, so you have freedom to change
your service at any time Great buys on top smartphones - Find great deals
on phones from brands like Samsung, iPhone, LG, HTC, and more Taxes for services are included in your plan price, so you can
easily budget your phone expenses Group Save discounts - Save up to $70/mo when you order five
eligible lines of service How to Pick a Cell Phone Service 1. Review your most recent cell phone bill Look for opportunities to save. In particular, take note of: How much you're paying per line - Do you have
a multi-line cell phone plan? What kind of discount are you getting? Could you save more
by switching? Cricket's family and group plan offers a discount for each extra line up
to the fifth line. How much data you use - Do you burn through
all of your high-speed data too soon? Do you always have lots of data to spare? Ideally,
you don't want to get too little or too much. Cricket has a variety of cell phone plans
to fit any lifestyle, so you can choose a cell phone plan that's just right. Any surprise taxes or fees (which can really add up)
- With Cricket, taxes are included in your bill, so you know exactly what
to expect. For a list of our current fees, view our Charges
& Fees page. 2. Decide how satisfied you are with your current cell
phone "Bring
Your Own Phone" BYOP - If you want to keep your phone, bring it to Cricket - just
make sure it's unlocked and compatible with our network. Get a brand new
smartphone - Had your eye on one of the hottest new phones? Just need an inexpensive
device that does the job? We've got a variety of prepaid smartphones, many with great
incentives when you switch to Cricket. 3. Consider any issues you've faced with service you
had in the past Have you had a lot of dropped calls or slow speeds? With
Cricket, you'll enjoy extensive 4G LTE coverage nationwide. Are you fed up with contracts? There's no annual contract with
Cricket's prepaid plans. Want great service? Providing outstanding customer care is a
top priority at Cricket, which is why we make it easy for you to reach us via chat or on
the phone. If you prefer to get answers quickly and easily, view our online
support. 