Gayakwad picked up three wickets for just nine runs to help India restrict South Africa Women to 112 for 7 and then Shafali Verma (60 off 30 balls) and captain Smriti Mandhana (48 not out off 28 balls) shared 96 runs for the opening wicket to canter to an easy win. The 17-year-old, who grabbed the top position for the first time after helping her side reach the knockout phase of the T20 World Cup last year in Australia, has leapfrogged Australia's Beth Mooney with scores of 23 and 47. Sharjeel, who was picked in the Pakistan T20 squad for the four games in South Africa and another three in Zimbabwe, has also been told he will not play the intra-squad matches in Lahore before the team's departure for Johannesburg on 28th March. The three-match ODI series to be held behind closed doors in Pune at the fag end of the England tour offers little context and relevance, with back-to-back T20 World Cups pencilled in before the next 50-over showpiece event in 2023. India vs England (IND vs ENG) 1st ODI Playing 11, Squad: If KL Rahul is played in the Indian middle order, there could be a toss-up between Mumbaikars Shreyas Iyer and Suryakumar Yadav for a place in the XI. After the Covid spike in Maharashtra, there was talk of shifting the ODIs to Ahmedabad. But the Maharashtra Cricket Association consulted the local authorities and assured the BCCI of the required bio-safety. Shreyas Iyer becomes the sixth Indian international cricketer - after Farokh Engineer, Murali Kartik, Dinesh Mongia, V.V.S. Laxman and Sourav Ganguly - to have signed for Lancashire for the 50-over tournament. Virat Kohli said the umpire's call clause in the Decision Review System is creating a lot of confusion and LBW dismissals should be based solely on whether the ball is hitting the stumps, even if marginally. England have already lost the Test and T20Is series and the Eoin Morgan-led team, who are the reigning world champions in the ODIs, would be desperate to stamp their authority in the format and sign off with some pride. 