Live Cricket – Cricket is not just a sport for Pakistanis as it is a true passion for them. Pakistan cricket fans are excited as after almost 14 years, the South African cricket team is visiting Pakistan where they will play 2 test matches and 3 T20Is. Pakistan Vs South Africa Test Series will be played at Karachi and Rawalpindi. On the other side, all three matches of the Pakistan Vs South Africa T20 Series will be held in Lahore. Babar Azam will lead men in green in both formats. When talking about international series and tours, the India Vs Australia test series is currently in progress. Australia won the Ind Vs Aus ODI series and India emerged as a winner in the Aus Vs Ind T20 series. England Vs Sri Lanka test series is also scheduled in January. However, Sri Lanka recently launched the SL Vs SA test series in South Africa. West Indies will also tour Bangladesh for one day and test series. Here, you can get the latest news and updates related to the ongoing and upcoming T20, ODI, and test series. Each year, Pakistan Cricket Board or PCB also arranges its widely acknowledged cricket league that is PSL or Pakistan Super League. In 2016, PSL’s first edition was played. With the launch or inception, the tournament got immense popularity not just in Pakistan but all around the world. Pakistan Cricket Board has already organized five editions of the Pakistan Super League. PSL 6 or PSL 2021 will be held from February 20 to March 22 in Karachi and Lahore. Karachi Kings, Lahore Qalandars, Islamabad United, Peshawar Zalmi, Quetta Gladiators, and Multan Sultans are among the participating teams. You will be able to view all the latest news, updates, and scorecard of the exciting T20 tournament. Those fans who are interested in knowing what social media talks about renowned cricketers can check out the Cricketers Tweets published on the page. It also gives you an insight regarding key players to look for in any format of the game. Fans can keep themselves updated with all news and gossip about cricket. 