Serious Sport is a Hampshire-based company, born of a love of sport and the vision to deliver specialist sportswear and equipment in very short lead times.
Founded by brothers Neil and Simon Rider, both are sports enthusiasts with a particular talent for cricket. 1978 1983 2003 2005 OUR STORY NEIL RIDER Neil, the company’s MD, played cricket throughout his youth reaching Minor Counties Level and making England Under 17 trials alongside the likes of Andrew Flintoff, and Alex Tudor. On moving to the coaching side of the game, he became the youngest Development Officer for the ECB, and subsequently Manager and Assistant Coach of the Ashes-holding England Women’s Team between 2003-2007. SIMON RIDER Simon, Operations Manager, played County Cricket for Suffolk too (U10 to U17). A right-handed batsman, he once managed to bowl someone out despite suffering a broken finger. Simon's love of sport carried through to his education, studying Sports Engineering at university. Gift Vouchers Team Store Set Up News Serious Cricket Roadmap Back To Cricket 24/02/2021 So it looks like we will be getting a full cricket season and finally, there appears to be light at the end of the tunnel after the latest government announcement.
We've gone full Boris Johnson and have put together our own roadmap that explains how Serious Cricket will be responding to the easing of lockdown restrictions.
Ahead of the milestones below, we are still operating online and assisting you with all your cricket equipment, teamwear and clothing needs ahead of the start of the new season. Please bear with us as delivery times may be slightly longer as we continue to safely increase our production team, but ordering early will help us!
Please see below key milestones in response to the government's roadmap and easing of lockdown restrictions:
1st March
Our office will be reopening with the following opening hours:
Monday - Friday: 10am - 2pm.
Click & collect will be available at the following times:
Monday - Friday: 10am - 2pm.
29th March
Our office and click & collect hours will be extended to the following:
Monday - Friday: 9am - 5pm.
Coaching Courses booked between 29th March - 11th April
We are currently looking for a suitable outdoor venue to host our Easter Courses between these dates. We will be in contact shortly once we have been able to finalise these details.
12th April
Our shop & cricket centre will reopen to the public with the following opening hours:
Monday - Friday: 9am - 10pm.
Saturday - Sunday: 9am - 5pm.
Our shop will be fully stocked with all the latest cricket equipment whilst our net lanes and arena have been upgraded through lockdown which can be booked online.
All coaching courses and 121 sessions taking place on or after 12th April will be at the Dummer Cricket Centre. If you have any 121 coaching bookings before the cricket centre reopens on the 12th April, please head to the 'my account' section on our website to cancel and reschedule your booking.
If you are trying to contact the office outside of our opening hours, you can either leave a message on our answerphone or alternatively email sales@serioussport.co.uk.
On behalf of all the team at Serious Cricket we look forward to welcoming you back soon. 