Free Cricket Games, Online Cricket Games Welcome to Cricket Games, the place to be for the best collection of free online cricket games on the internet. At cricketgames.me.uk we have made a free website for all people that love to play cricket online. Our collection of games are made up of some of the best on the world wide web. Try to achieve the ultimate prize as a batsman which is the magic century. Get ready to test yourself as a cricket player and prove your worth with bat and ball.We hope you enjoy your stay and please remember to tell your friends and family about our site we have put together and offer free for you all, Please have fun and enjoy your stay. Can you prove you and your cricket teams worth on the big stage. Well it does not get bigger then the cricket world Cup does it. Take the other teams on and see if you have what it takes to win the cricket world cup. Get your timing right to hit the ball with your bat, also remember to hit the ball at the right angle. Get past the run score to win the game and become a top batsman but remember to protect your wicket! The Australian cricket team have turned into zombies in this bloody ashes battle. You need to bat your way though their players. Inbetween each level you can strengthen your batting or bowling order and remember to take advantage of the special balls on offer. Test you skill with the bat. This game is a must for all you budding batsmen. The game uses a really nice ragdoll engine. A very addictive cricket game. A top spinner is a delivery bowled by a bowler either with wrist spin or finger spin. This is a very nice flash cricket game. You have to complete different levels to move on in the game.Your job is to lineup your batsman and hit the ball. You will need different hits to move on in the game so read what you did to do to complete each level. In this cricket game you have to try and injury the batsmen with your bowlers. This game was inspired by the infamous Ashes tour of 1932/33 when England used this tactic to try and combat the brilliant Australian batsman Don Bradman. The Australian cricket team have turned into zombies in this bloody ashes battle. You need to bat your way though their players. Inbetween each level you can strengthen your batting or bowling order and remember to take advantage of the special balls on offer. This is a funny cricket related game. You have to stop the Aussie players from reaching the Urn at all costs. Remember to use the extra weapons in your campaign such as the London taxi to run them over. World cricket has it all. Pick your cricket team then pick your opponents cricket team. Choose how many overs you want to play and then toss a coin and if you win the toss choose if you want to bat or bowl first. As the well known cricket term says catches win matches. Some might argue that its a batsmans game but if you cant keep wicket then you will not win at this game. Test how good you are with the gloves! Everybody seems to focus on great cricket batsmen but you need to be good in the field as well to win games. This cricket game lets you test your skills as a cricket fielder. Lets see if you can make that vital run out and knock the bails clean off! Australia and England battle it out in this cricket game. The prize is the little Urn. The most celebrated rivalry in international cricket. Can you bring victory to your country, cricket team and fans? 