Cricket is the most popular game in people of Asia especially India and Pakistan. It’s a team game and two teams play against each other. One team sets a cricket score for the opponent team to chase.
As cricket is very famous its equipment are available easily, but for the professional game, proper gear kit is required which can be obtained only from a good store.Bucket.pk has solved this problem.Bucket.pk is the best online store in Pakistan. We offer the best sports equipment online. As cricket is the most famous game in the country we at bucket.pk provide all sort of cricket equipment at very competitive prices. As bucket is the best online shopping store in Pakistan we assure best customer service and timely delivery of products.
We offer amazing cricket item collection for cricket lovers. We have a good collection of Wicket keeping gloved in different colors. There is wicket keeping pads for professional cricketers at bucket.pk.Good quality of batting gloves is available at our store. Attack red, super league white ball and super league red balls are available for all cricket lovers. Junior batting gloves are available for junior cricket players. Cricket shoes in all different colors and sizes are available at very good prices. A complete white dress kit is one of the main requirement of professional cricket and can be bought from bucket.pk. The basic item for cricket is a proper cricket bat and buket.pk has a wide range of different cricket bats. Full cricket kit bags are available in all colors. You don’t have to travel and spend your precious time in stores to select cricket items .just log into bucket.pk and in our Cricket section, you can find all sort of cricket-related items. Select now from the ease of your home and order for free of cost delivery across Pakistan. For further relaxation use our cash on delivery service and pay only receiving the product when you are satisfied with the quality. Be a bucket.pk customer today and enjoy our offers and sales with the amazing quality of shopping. 