Cricket Grounds Maintenance Whether it's a cricket wicket mower, cricket square mower or a cricket outfield mower Dennis have the ideal product range for cricket ground maintenance. From cricket aeration to cricket scarifying, Cricket pitches have to be in tip-top condition throughout the season and Dennis has the full range of equipment for the complete turf maintenance, lawn mowing and ground maintenance that your cricket club - and cricket pitch - needs. Products The Dennis FT interchangeable cassette system is the ideal cricket wicket and square mower. With a choice of 11 different cassette options including scarifiers, verticutters, brushes, spikers and slitters as well as a 9 blade cutter cassette, the FT offers groundsmen maximum versatility from a single power unit. Cassettes can be changed over in approx 60 seconds without the need for any tools. The Razor Ultra 560 has been developed to specifically meet the demands of cricket pitches. The mower is perfect for cutting the cricket wicket or square. This cricket pitch mower has a 560mm (22") cutting width and incorporates many key features, 11 bladed cutting cylinder, ultra short wheelbase for undulating surfaces, tungsten tipped groomer, click height adjusters and stub free transport wheels. The Razor is a superbly balanced, easy to manoeuvre fine turf mower which is ideal for cricket pitches, cricket squares and cricket wickets. An 11 bladed cutting cylinder ensures an ultra fine finish and has an ultra short wheelbase for undulating surfaces. This professional mower is designed with cricket pitch maintenance in mind. An ideal cricket square mower built on the FT principle, the Super Six is almost the same with simpler height of cut adjustment. Available as 17" (43cm), 20" (51cm) and 24" (61cm) widths. Interchange cassette system giving option to fit 10 different heads including scarifiers, verticutters, brushes, spikers and slitters as well as 5 or 9 blade cutter cassettes with 15 seconds changeover of cassettes. Cricket square or outfield mowers with an interchangeable cassette system. Groundsmen achieve maximum machine versatility by choosing from a selection of 11 different cassettes including scarifiers, verticutters, brushes, spikers, slitters as well as 6 or 8 bladed cutter cylinders. Cassettes can be changed over in approx 60 seconds. A superbly balanced cricket square and cricket outfield mower available in both 30" (76cm) and 36" (91cm) cutting widths with either diesel or petrol engine and an electric start. Excellent stripe pattern and rolling characteristics. Available with an attachable seat option. The S500 PLUS is an easy to use 'dual-purpose' machine and is ideal for maintaining cricket pitches. The machine has a 510mm (20") operating width and has interchangeable spiker and slotter reels. The spiker reel punches through the "surface pan" allowing air, water and fertiliser to penetrate the root zone, whilst the slotter reel creates ideal seed germination pockets. An optional seed box is available. Paul Mitcham - Groundsman - Braunton Cricket Club Press Releases Dennis and SISIS are celebrating an impressive decade of groundcare seminars this year. In this article, we look at the history and development of the seminars and how they have proved to be so beneficial for so many of the unsung heroes in a wide variety of sports turf sectors. Vic Demain, Durham CCC head groundsman, says that the Dennis Razor Ultra 560 fine turf mower has made a significant improvement to the pitch at the Emirates Riverside stadium and in particular has praised the groomer reel attachment. The Dennis and SISIS Groundcare Seminar took place at St. Albans School, Woollam Trust Playing Fields on Tuesday 19 February with delegates all claiming it was a huge success. For a number of years, the Dennis and SISIS pre-season indoor seminars have toured the country and have successfully seen over 1800 ground staff in attendance. Ian Smith, turf consultant for St Albans School, Woollam Trust Playing Fields, has reported excellent results from using the combination of a Dennis G860 cassette system and a Dennis Razor fine turf mower on the cricket pitches. Over 130 cricket groundsmen made their way to Cheltenham College for the second ever Dennis and SISIS’ Cricket Pitch Renovation Day, which featured a mix of thought provoking indoor presentations and outdoor practical demonstrations. After a complete fleet renewal at Merchant Taylors’ School, grounds manager Richard Ayling has continued to put his trust in Dennis by purchasing a G860 and a G30D cylinder mower to add to the two G860’s the school already had. Dennis and SISIS have announced the date for their popular cricket renovation day for 2018. The event will be held at Cheltenham College on 7 August and those wishing to attend are encouraged to register soon to avoid disappointment. After Richard Ayling, grounds manager at Merchant Taylors’ School, drew up a shortlist of new potential machinery to purchase, the Dennis Razor fine turf mower saw off competition to receive a unanimous vote from himself and his team. The SISIS Veemo Mk2 and Rotorake TM1000 tractor mounted scarifiers are used for maximum thatch removal and offer fast ground coverage, ideal for large areas such as cricket pitches and all elements of cricket ground maintenance. The SISIS range of tractor-mounted aerators comprises four machines which are suitable for cricket grounds maintenance. The Multitiner 1.8m, Multitiner 1.2m, Mounted Rolaspike and Javelin Aer-Aid are versatile machines which can be used for cricket pitch maintenance. The Multitiner machines are tractor-mounted drum aerators, the Rolaspike is a tractor-mounted Sarel type roller and the Javelin is a vertical action, air-injection aerator. The SISIS Towed Implement Frame is designed specifically for daily maintenance of artificial surfaces, keeping it in good playing condition and maximising surface life. Ideal for towing behind small compact garden tractors and perfect for cricket ground maintenance. The SISIS Variseeder 1300 is a versatile tractor-mounted seeder that is ideal for cricket pitch maintenance. Its seeding rate is variable and is simple and accurate to set by Zero-Max box lending itself well to use on crciket pitches, wickets and outfields. The SISIS range of tractor-mounted sweepers include two - Litamina 1200 & 1500 and Litamisa 1800 - which can be used on cricket pitches. The Litamina and Litamisa sweep and collect all kinds of surface debris aiding cricket ground maintenance. The SISIS Osca 3 is a tractor mounted oscillating brush that is equally effective on natural and synthetic turf. This means it is ideally suited for a range of requirements from artificial pitches to sports fields, especially cricket grounds. The Flexi400 is an interchangeable unit designed for fast and effective coverage on large areas such as cricket outfields. It has seven fully floating heads, allowing it to follow ground contours and can be used for dew removal, striping and lifting grasses. The SISIS Trulevel is a bowling green roller that can also be used for maintenance of cricket wickets. Over-riding action on slight hollows allows level areas to be firmly rolled, whilst low areas are left, so that the playing surface is progressively levelled. Outer rollers can be raiesed concentrating the whole weight on the centtre cylinder if required. Maintenance Calendar You are likely to find you may have accumulated some surface debris on the square on your return from Christmas break. The sward will not be able to survive due to lack of light and could die, so it’s important to remove them. Many clubs often put up temporary fences around their squares to protect them. Your pitch preparations, mowing and marking will now be in full swing as the season starts to get very busy. Follow the 10-12 day guidelines and try to produce a wicket that is consistent and offers fast medium pace. Make sure those lines are accurate and straight and begin the month by fully irrigating the square if you haven't done so already. September can be the busiest time for some groundsmen. Those who have a few weeks left of their season will be busy planning end of season activities, whilst others will be turning their attentions to more important issues such as end of season renovations. As summer time ends and winter begins, renovation programmes on cricket squares should by now have been completed. With the north of England and Scotland suffering from high winds and low pressure systems, the Midlands and Southern parts are basking in warm day time temperatures, which, continuing into October has certainly helped in getting germination on the square. Hopefully, by now, you should have managed to complete your end of season renovations and germination has been successful and any loam dressings will by now have settled down. It is important to go into the winter months with a good sward cover. Why Dennis A name you can trust. . . . The Dennis reputation for quality began in 1922 and has grown ever since. Quality influences our approach at every stage and shapes our attitude towards delivering excellent equipment capable of creating a world class finish every time. We're part of your world. . . . Team Dennis work harder to offer more support to more customers more of the time, whether at grass roots level or with professional users. That’s why you’ll see our machines on the best pitches, greens and fine lawns around the world. Team Dennis. . . . At every stage of the lifecycle of a Dennis mower our team of engineers and sales support are here to help you with any technical advice. We are committed to deliver the highest levels of customer service with website, videos, catalogues, advice and help. The dealerships that represent Dennis products are carefully selected to ensure customers receive first class professional support. Whatever you need, our dealers will always be there to help. Solid Engineering with a refined feel. . . . Take hold of a Dennis mower and you'll feel the difference immediately. Solidly built, well balanced and a joy to operate. Next Day spare parts. . . . At Dennis we understand the importance of reducing machine downtime so we carry a vast stock of spare parts. In addition, our online resource of operator manuals makes it even easier to identify the correct part number. Design and Development. . . . Renowned for innovation and continuous evolution of product through customer driven feedback and utilising the latest design technologie. Over 130 cricket groundsmen made their way to Cheltenham College for the second ever Dennis and SISIS’ Cricket Pitch Renovation Day, which featured a mix of thought provoking indoor presentations and outdoor practical demonstrations. Cricket end of season renovation seminar with Dennis Mowers. The recent Dennis Mowers end of season Cricket Groundsman’s Seminar saw over 150 cricket groundsmen attend the day which was hosed at St Albans School Woollam Trust in Hertfordshire. 