Discover your flame. Scroll to discover Bring your spark. In 1961 we brought the first disposable lighter to the world. Ever since then, we have been driven to go further and to continuously set new standards for lighters. We believe that you must never lose that inner spark. Keep it close and breed it. Make it grow. Bring your spark. And the Stories that sparks the fire within will be remembered. Lights every time. A Cricket lighter lights every time for up to 2000 times during its lifetime cycle. This makes our lighters not only one of the worlds most reliable ones but also one of the more long lasting. Bring your spark. Again and again. Made from recycled nylon Our lighters are made up of thin nylon walls making them extremely tough and resistant. It also makes our use of plastic 30% less than our competitors. We are constantly looking at new ways to leave a smaller footprint on our environment. Always reliable. Always safe. Shaping the future. Again. With our Cricket Eco lighter we have devoted ourselves to look forwards, think long term and become more sustainable. So in 2020 we set new standards and created the first lighter body in the world made from 100% recycled nylon helping reduce our CO2 emissions by 76%. A lasting‍spark. The Cricket Deluxe lighter is our most luxurious and durable lighter to date. With the casting made out of metal, a turbo flame making it windproof, the possibility to refill and reflint it, this high quality lighter is made to last the test of times. It comes delivered in a branded tin carry-around-case and with a two year warranty for that extra lush feeling. Style,quality and personality. Cricket spring designs 2020 focuses on sparks of creativity. We have designs for all parts of the world, every culture there is and for each taste of the palet, just to help express your personality. Look out for that special one in your favourite store! Contact form Even though we are very happy that you are contacting us we would like you to know that we are currently in over 140 countries and receive lots of inquiries. So please be patient and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible. Have a great day! What can we help you with? Which country are you based in: How should we address you? Which company do you represent? Where can we contact you?Can you describe briefly how we can help you?By submitting this form you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy 