Freedom Fighters & Rehabilitation Division The Division frames and implements the Freedom Fighters Pension Scheme and the schemes for rehabilitation of migrants from former West Pakistan/East Pakistan and provision of relief to Sri Lankan and Tibetan refugees. It also handles work relating to Enemy Properties and residual work relating to Evacuee Properties. About the Division Introduction The Freedom Fighters & Rehabilitation Division has two wings namely Freedom Fighters Wing & Rehabilitation Wing. Freedom Fighters Wing is responsible for matters relating to grant of Central Samman Pension and other welfare measures to the freedom fighters. The Rehabilitation Wing is dealing with residual matters relating to Relief & Rehabilitation of displaced persons from East & West Pakistan; rehabilitation assistance to Sri-Lankan Refugees/Repatriates from Sri-Lanka; and the Tibetan Refugees staying in India including grant of protected area permits for visits to the Tibetan Settlements; preservation and management of Enemy Properties in India. Under package deals signed by Government of India with the State Governments in the early 70s, the work relating to the management and disposal of Evacuee Properties along with the relevant records was transferred to the State Governments. All the five Acts relating to Relief & Rehabilitation of displaced persons from East & West Pakistan were also repealed in 2005. Any claims pending on the date of the repeal of the Acts are now to be settled by the respective State Governments under the existing laws/laws to be framed by them or under the General Clauses Act. Subject Allotted SR-No Title Download/Link 1 Swatantrata Sainik Samman Yojana. 2 Matters relating to the welfare of freedom fighters of the country. 3 Residual matters relating to Relief & Rehabilitation of displaced persons from East & West Pakistan. Functions as Administrative Division for Repatriates Cooperative Finance and Development Bank Ltd. (Repco Bank), Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Ministry of Home Affairs holds majority shareholding in the Bank. The Bank has also a subsidiary known as REPCO Home. Clarification regarding Declaration of Employment/Independent Income for a claim under dependent family pension under the Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme, 1980 now renamed as "Swatantrata Sainik Samman Yojana. Facilities admissible to Central Samman Pensioners under SSSY Facility of Free Railway Passes in II AC in Rajdhani, Chair Car in Shatabdi/Janshatabdi and 1st Class or AC II Tier of all other trains for themselves and widows along with an attendant for life. 2 Free medical facilities in all Central Government hospitals (including CGHS dispensaries) and hospitals run by the Public Sector Undertakings under the administrative control of the Bureau of Public Enterprises. Eligibility conditions and evidentiary requirements in case of Goa Liberation Movement-II claims. The Pension is granted only to those persons or their eligible dependents, who had been actually sanctioned State Pension by 1.8.2002 and whose names. 7 Copy of letter dated 6th October 2009 issued to all States/UTs clarifying that the minimum age for sanction of Central Samman Pension is 15 years. Ex-gratia payment to the extent of @25% of the verified claims subject of a maximum of Rs.25 lacs to the Indian nationals and companies, whose assets were seized by Government of Pakistan during and after Indo-Pakistan Conflict of September 1965. Document regarding transfer of items of work relating to administration, management and disposal of undisposed of acquired evacuee lands/properties and realization of rental demands etc to the Government of Andhra Pradesh. Transfer of residuary work relating to administration, management and disposal of undisposed of evacuee properties/agricultural lands and realization of rental arrears etc to the State Government of Karnataka. Transfer of the residuary work relating to the administration, management and disposal of undisposed of evacuee properties/Agricultural lands and realization of rental arrears etc. to the State Government of Tamil-Nadu. 