The Freedom Figh‪t‬
17+ Designed for iPhone iPhone Screenshots Description Find freedom from porn. No matter how long you've been using porn or how you've tried to get free, our proven program is for you. Yes, the path is difficult. We'll guide you every step of the way. The Freedom Fight is the no-cost porn recovery program that blends brain science, clinical practices, and biblical wisdom to help men and women find freedom. We understand the full spectrum of factors that drive compulsive porn use — physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual. For anyone ready to be free of the destructive power of pornography, the Freedom Fight delivers breakthrough insights, practical tools, and step-by-step training to guide you. What’s New Mar 7, 2021 Version 3.0.0 We update our app frequently to improve your experience. This is a major update with a complete redesign of the app interface. Here are a few of the improvements you'll find in the latest update:- Improved design and layout- Improved notification system- Improved chat system- Performance improvements- Updated onboarding Need Help? Tap Help in the Freedom Fight app or visit http://thefreedomfight.org/helpHave feedback? Connect with us at info@thefreedomfight.org Ratings and Reviews Amazing A great next step for those currently gripped by pornography. This app will help guide you through the roots of your “why” and give you sound wisdom in how to achieve freedom in your life. Plug in today! Skat'in Ryan
, 07/15/2020 By far the best resource out there to defeat addiction Practical clear well produced videos and activities to help gain true freedom from addiction. Super thankful to the freedom fight for changing my life Kaylieeee bug
, 07/26/2018 Beyond Epic It is very user friendly-I love the App tour that tells you what everything does. App Privacy The developer, Student Mobilization, Inc., indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. For more information, see the developer’s privacy policy. Data Not Linked to You The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity: Contact Info User Content Identifiers Usage Data Sensitive Info Other Data Privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. Learn More 