The road to freedom at midnight: 5 key turning points in India’s struggle for independence The freedom movement in India picked up pace after Mahatma Gandhi’s return from South Africa, where he had created a huge impression as an activist and lawyer. Mahatma Gandhi leads the famous Dandi March (photo courtesy Wikipedia)&nbsp Key Highlights The slaughter of innocent Indian men, women and children at Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab shocked the country and exposed the British raj for what it really was The Non-Cooperation movement (1920-22), one of the first mass movements launched by Mahatma Gandhi, sought swaraj or self-government for all Indians One of the most inspiring figures of the Indian freedom movement, Subhas Chandra Bose is best known as the man who took the fight to the British by leading the Azad Hind Fauj India’s fight for freedom which culminated in independence for one-seventh of the human race on 15 August 1947 was a very long and arduous struggle lasting several decades. It had many salient features which made it quite remarkable when compared to freedom movements in other parts of the world. The key among these was that it was largely peaceful. Though a small section of Indian revolutionaries believed that an armed struggle was the only way of defeating the British, for the most part Indian freedom-fighters followed Mahatma Gandhi’s principles of non-violent resistance against the mighty British empire. The freedom movement picked up pace after Gandhi’s return from South Africa, where he had created a huge impression on South Africans of all colours as an activist and lawyer. So the period from the latter half of World War 1 onwards was really when the Indian freedom struggle took concrete shape, while building on the nationalist currents and enormous work done by Indian leaders till then. While thousands of events, tragedies, campaigns and movements, big and small, contributed to the growth of the freedom movement, some stand out. Here are five ‘turning points’. Formation of the Indian National Congress: In December 1884, British civil servant Allan Octavian Hume presided over a private meeting with 17 other men in Madras. This meeting was the genesis of the Indian National Congress (INC). When it was finally founded on 28 December 1885, the INC’s primary objective was to be a forum where educated Indians could pursue a political dialogue with the British government. From this rather limited scope, it gradually turned into a mass movement and the party of the freedom movement which spawned a galaxy of leaders including Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, and India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Jallianwala Bagh massacre: The slaughter of innocent Indian men, women and children at Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab shocked the country and exposed the British raj for what it really was – a brutal occupying power with little regard for the lives of the people it ruled. There was already growing resentment against the British rule after World War 1, with the imperial power unwilling to devolve powers to Indians. In April 1919, Punjab was gripped by unrest, and the authorities banned public gatherings. Brigadier General REH Dyer was among those tasked with restoring order. On April 13, he ordered his men to fire on a gathering of around 10,000 civilians who had gathered at Amritsar’s Jallianwala Bagh. The death toll is disputed but it went into the several hundreds and according to some estimates, nearly 2,000 people perished. The act by Dyer caused widespread revulsion, and convinced many Indians that the British rule must end. Non-Cooperation movement: The Non-Cooperation movement (1920-22), one of the first mass movements launched by Mahatma Gandhi, sought swaraj or self-government for all Indians. Closely tied to Gandhi’s ideas of satyagraha and organised civil disobedience, it envisaged Indians boycotting all institutions of the Raj like colleges and courts, giving up their titles and refusing to pay taxes. Though it didn’t meet all its objectives, it generated a wave of excitement among vast sections of Indians, who for the first time realised what a modern political movement looked like. Dandi March: Another masterstroke by Mahatma Gandhi, he embarked on the historic march from Gujarat's Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi, a coastal village in the state, on 12 March 1930 to protest the unreasonably steep tax levied on salt – the most basic of commodities – by the British. But the Salt March or the Dandi March as it came to be known was much more than just opposition to the salt tax. As tens of thousands of people joined Gandhi on the 24-day march, it transformed into one of the largest civil disobedience movements the world had known. From then on, mass resistance against the colonial rule became a permanent affair. The Azad Hind Fauj: One of the most inspiring figures of the Indian freedom movement, Subhas Chandra Bose is best known as the man who took the fight to the British by leading the Azad Hind Fauj or the Indian National Army (INA) which was founded in 1942. Bose and his brave men joined hands with the Japanese to oust the British. Though historians are divided over the military impact the INA had on the ground, there is little doubt that Britain saw the writing on the wall, especially when the 1945 trials of captured members of INA – known as the Red Fort trials – turned the popular mood decisively against the government. By the middle of 1946, the British had realised that discontent was brewing among Indian soldiers, and complete independence could no longer be delayed or denied. 