Revisiting India’s Freedom Struggle and Role of Freedom Fighters September 14, 2017 The Department of Geopolitics and International Relations, Manipal Academy of Higher Education organised a special lecture on “Revisiting India's Freedom Struggle and Role of Freedom Fighters” with a focus on the rationale behind Quit India Movement leading to India’s independence. India has been celebrating 75th anniversary of Quit India Movement with a great zeal and fervour. The esteemed guest invited for the lecture was Air Vice Marshal K R Karnik. He pointed out the circumstances under which India had to go for partition and emphasised on the role played by Jawaharlal Nehru, Md. Ali Jinnah, M K Gandhi and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. He highlighted how Maulana Abul Kalam Azad had an alternate vision of partition. He was highly vocal against India’s partition and had predicted the disturbances which were caused leading to greater instability and division within Indian society. AVM Karnik traced the history of India’s national movement and highlighted how the revolt of 1857 was first war of Indian Independence. The conflicting perspectives between the extremists and moderates on the issues relating to India’s national movement were also highlighted. How Europeans perceived the emerging contours of India’s national movement formed a major part of the discourse. India has shown great passion, zeal and resilience in coming out from the British yoke. Dr. Nanda Kishor of Department of Geopolitics and International Relations highlighted how each of the Congress sessions had a specific declaration in terms of fighting against British rule and also highlighted how a number of political parties established including Muslim League, Communist Party of India and more importantly from the very beginning the Indian National Congress undoubtedly contributed to India’s freedom. The understanding of the various issues dealing with Indian national movement is very important for Indian citizens. He also emphasised on the repercussion of Quit India Movement for British Raj and in what ways Viceroy Linlithgow wanted to defeat the purpose of Quit India Movement. The challenges posed by Cabinet Mission, Simon Commission, Cripps Mission and ultimately to Indian Independence Act of 1947 were also discussed. Prof. Arvind Kumar welcomed the gathering and highlighted the importance of the national movement and its relevance for the present generation. Dr. Monish Tourangbam proposed a vote of thanks to the Chief Guest and to the audience. The Department of Geopolitics and International Relations, Manipal Academy of Higher Education felicitated and honoured AVM K R Karnik for his contributions to the nation. Their Struggle For Freedom Is Incomparable: Acknowledge The Famous Freedom Fighters And Their Renowned Slogans One cannot thank enough for the sacrifice made by our freedom fighters. Regardless of how little the role they played in but their effort and their struggle is of significance. Every Indian honour and members the scarce made by the freedom fighters. Here is a list of freedom fighter whom we shall remember. The Indian Nationalist, Journalist, Teacher, Social reformer, Lawyer and an Independence Activist; Bal Gangadhar Tilak was the first leader of the Indian Independence Movement. He was also called as “Father of the Indian unrest” by the British colonial authorities. He was also bestowed with the title “Lokmanya”, which means “accepted by the people as their leader.” Bal Gangadhar Tilak is famous for his quote in Marathi, “स्वराज्य हा माझा जन्मसिद्ध हक्क आहे आणि ते मी मिळवणारच” which meant “Swarajya is my birthright and I shall have it.” Bhagat Singh Bhagat Singh was considered to be the most influential revolutionaries of the Indian Independence movement. He was involved in the murder of John Saunders, a British Police Officer. The police tried to capture him, however, he was not arrested. Later, he demanded equal political rights for both Indian and British political prisoners. Bhagat Singh’s slogan “Inqlaab Zindabad” became the rallying cries of the independence struggle and motivated the youth of India. Jawaharlal Nehru The first Prime Minister of independent India. He developed as the vital pioneer of the Indian Independence Movement under the tutelage of Mahatma Gandhi. He governed India from its foundation as an independent country in 1947 until his passing in office in 1964. The desperate freedom fighter who always wanted his motherland to be free from the British Rule said, “Aaram haram hai.” Subhash Chandra Bose Subhash Chandra Bose was recognised as Netaji. He was the founder of the Indian National Army. He encouraged the youth of India to participate in the fight to achieve freedom for their nation. He was the person who propelled a large number of youthful personalities to set out their lives for the country. He motivated the people with his slogan, “Tum Muje Khoon Do, Mai Tumhe Azadi Dunga.” Muhammad Iqbal A famous poet, politician, philosopher and a remarkable academic are what Muhammad Iqbal was. He served as the barrister in British India.He utilised poetry and songs to spread political mindfulness among the individuals. He was the one who gave us the song “Sare Jahan Se Achha Hindustan Hamara” which later on was developed into a slogan to promote the feeling of patriotism amongst the youth. Bankim Chandra Chatterjee The Indian journalist and activist, Bankim Chandra Chatterjee was known to personify India as goddess and mother in his poem during the Indian National Movement. “Vande Mataram” was written by him and later on it has been converted into a song by Rabindranath Tagore. At present, the first stanza of the Indian National Song has been adopted from his poem. Chandrashekhar Azad Chandrashekhar Azad had an incredibly progressive philosophy as for the freedom movement. He was well known among the majority by his self-taken name "Azad". Azad joined the freedom struggle at his youth and took part in various brutal movements. Azad pledged to liberate the country from the grasp of the British. Disclaimer: The views expressed in the article above are those of the authors' and do not necessarily represent or reflect the views of this publishing house. Unless otherwise noted, the author is writing in his/her personal capacity. They are not intended and should not be thought to represent official ideas, attitudes, or policies of any agency or institution. 