'Freedom Fighters' - 324 News Result(s) Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' paid homage to freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev at an event organised on Tuesday by Delhi University on the occasion of 'Shaheed Diwas'. Martyrs' Day 2021: Today is Shaheed Diwas. India remembers its great heroes of the freedom struggle - Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru - who were hanged by the British colonial rulers.Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev were only 23 when they were hanged and Rajguru was 22. The three freedom fighters are immortal in the heart of every Indian. "Vocal for local" is a wonderful tribute to Mahatama Gandhi and India's freedom fighters, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said today as he flagged off the beginning of celebrations to mark 75 years of Independence. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Saturday announced that steps would be taken to increase the monthly pension of freedom fighters in the state to Rs 25,000 and provide them with free healthcare. In a continuing celebration of Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary year, Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday paid a tribute to freedom fighters of Bengal, specially those who are relatively unsung as he inaugurated an exhibition in Kolkata. 142nd bith anniversary of Sarojini Naidu: Known as the Nightingale of India, Sarojini Naidu was a poet and freedom freedom fighter and the first woman governor of India. Sarojini Naidu was a child prodigy. She was barely twelve years old, when she wrote a 1300-line poem 'Lady of the Lake' in six days. The programme has been called as ‘Scheme for Mentoring Young Authors Under India 75 Project’ to mark the 75th Independence Day of our country on August 15. The young authors between the age of 8 to 18 of this country will be encouraged and mentored to write books on freedom fighters. Lala Lajpat Rai Jayanti: Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai on his birth anniversary today. He led a silent march against the Simon Commission in 1928. "Remembering the great Lala Lajpat Rai Ji on his Jayanti. His contribution to India's freedom struggle is indelible and inspires people across generations,"... The Trinamool Congress on Monday said that it is likely to move a censure motion in the West Bengal assembly over raising of ''Jai Shri Ram slogan at an official programme to celebrate the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, claiming that it was an insult to the freedom fighter as well as the chief minister. President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day. Conveying his heartfelt wishes, President Kovind paid homage to India's freedom fighters in his speech. He also spoke about the contribution of farmers and soldiers in the country and how the coronavirus crisis led to "Atma-nirbhar Bharat". A day before India’s 72nd Republic Day, we look back at three iconic speeches – ‘Tryst with Destiny’ by Jawaharlal Nehru, ‘Give me blood and I will give you freedom’ by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and ‘Swaraj is my Birthright’ by Bal Gangadhar Tilak. After his visit to Kolkata in West Bengal to pay tribute to freedom fighter Subhash Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shared a video on Twitter from the trip, thanking the state "for the overwhelming affection." 'Freedom Fighters' - 324 News Result(s) Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' paid homage to freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev at an event organised on Tuesday by Delhi University on the occasion of 'Shaheed Diwas'. Martyrs' Day 2021: Today is Shaheed Diwas. India remembers its great heroes of the freedom struggle - Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru - who were hanged by the British colonial rulers.Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev were only 23 when they were hanged and Rajguru was 22. The three freedom fighters are immortal in the heart of every Indian. "Vocal for local" is a wonderful tribute to Mahatama Gandhi and India's freedom fighters, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said today as he flagged off the beginning of celebrations to mark 75 years of Independence. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Saturday announced that steps would be taken to increase the monthly pension of freedom fighters in the state to Rs 25,000 and provide them with free healthcare. In a continuing celebration of Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary year, Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday paid a tribute to freedom fighters of Bengal, specially those who are relatively unsung as he inaugurated an exhibition in Kolkata. 142nd bith anniversary of Sarojini Naidu: Known as the Nightingale of India, Sarojini Naidu was a poet and freedom freedom fighter and the first woman governor of India. Sarojini Naidu was a child prodigy. She was barely twelve years old, when she wrote a 1300-line poem 'Lady of the Lake' in six days. The programme has been called as ‘Scheme for Mentoring Young Authors Under India 75 Project’ to mark the 75th Independence Day of our country on August 15. The young authors between the age of 8 to 18 of this country will be encouraged and mentored to write books on freedom fighters. Lala Lajpat Rai Jayanti: Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai on his birth anniversary today. He led a silent march against the Simon Commission in 1928. "Remembering the great Lala Lajpat Rai Ji on his Jayanti. His contribution to India's freedom struggle is indelible and inspires people across generations,"... The Trinamool Congress on Monday said that it is likely to move a censure motion in the West Bengal assembly over raising of ''Jai Shri Ram slogan at an official programme to celebrate the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, claiming that it was an insult to the freedom fighter as well as the chief minister. President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day. Conveying his heartfelt wishes, President Kovind paid homage to India's freedom fighters in his speech. He also spoke about the contribution of farmers and soldiers in the country and how the coronavirus crisis led to "Atma-nirbhar Bharat". A day before India’s 72nd Republic Day, we look back at three iconic speeches – ‘Tryst with Destiny’ by Jawaharlal Nehru, ‘Give me blood and I will give you freedom’ by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and ‘Swaraj is my Birthright’ by Bal Gangadhar Tilak. After his visit to Kolkata in West Bengal to pay tribute to freedom fighter Subhash Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shared a video on Twitter from the trip, thanking the state "for the overwhelming affection." 